The title for this morning's talk is Tarot, Link Between Self and Subconscious States.

Now, if you will recall, last Sunday morning, we were discussing the subconscious physical relationships as taught in Qabalah. And in a way, you might say this is the same subject, although it has a slightly different slant. It is aimed more, that is this morning's talk, at trying to show you some of the ways in which subconsciousness reacts to self-consciousness and vice versa, in order to help to understand the workings of consciousness as a whole. and indeed we will continue with further explanations I think probably through this whole month when we bring up the Tarot to show what the real underlying elements are regarding the principles of subconsciousness and their effects upon the rest of our lives our activities our thinkings and so on as well as just what we might do about gaining more control of these areas of our being now in tarot if you look up above me there you will see tarot key number one the magician this is the symbolic representation of self-consciousness or also referred to as the power of attention which really is the power of of self-consciousness primarily, though self-consciousness has other elements. The power of attention is its basic element, its basic power. Now, right next to it, number two, the high priestess, this is a symbolic representation of subconsciousness. All through the tarot series, however, we are showing the three phases of consciousness, self-consciousness, subconsciousness, and super consciousness in their various symbolic appearances so that your inner knowingness can be stirred into learning how to differentiate between these states and thereby gain more control over those that require control but we are going to talk mainly this morning about the powers as they exist and as they act in terms of the tarot key number one self-consciousness the magician, attention, and tarot key number two, high priestess, the power of subconsciousness in essence. Now, first of all, we need to try to understand a little more about what we mean by subconsciousness. We did speak about it last Sunday morning, but let's enter a little more into the aspects that are involved. For example, let's consider hypnosis. Under hypnosis, it has been found that there is a part of the mind because really whether we say self-conscious subconscious or super conscious we're always referring to the one mind although it has three levels of activity almost as though we were thinking of an ocean and the ocean were divided into three parts the divisions are not real they are relative divisions and basically we are consciousness which includes all the other aspects. Now then, if we think about subconsciousness in terms of what happens under hypnosis, we discover some very interesting things. For example, we discover that subconsciousness has an extraordinary power, or seems to, because a hypnotist, if he has what's called a good hypnotic subject, can suggest, and notice the word suggest because this all acts through suggestion, he can suggest to the person under hypnosis that that person is being burned.

Now he applies a cigarette to the burn according to what the hypnotized person thinks. However, what he might be touching the hypnotic subject with might be just the end of a pencil, and it is but he says this is the burning cigarette and instantly a blister comes up a real blister incidentally that has to heal now this is really an extraordinary type of phenomenon if we only knew it the fact that believing or accepting a suggestion can bring about the type of condition which usually comes only if we actually did burn ourselves with a cigarette or something else. Therefore, consciousness must have something to do, and certainly the subconscious part of consciousness, must have something to do with the effects that we experience as witness, the fact that a blister can be raised, and many other things. The hypnotist can tell the person under hypnosis that this person cannot bend his arm or his leg or that he's rigid and instantly this occurs. They take ten strong men to try to bend an arm or leg and it's impossible to do it. The strength and power of subconsciousness or what appears to be subconsciousness is so great. Now one of the problems is that we do not seem to realize that in essence a person under hypnosis is merely in an extreme condition of what in actuality is taking place all the time you and I when we walk around thinking we are awake are very partially awake we are very much under a state of hypnosis we are very much under a state of suggestibility and this state of suggestibility causes us to accept all sorts of things or all sorts of ideas which incidentally perhaps may not be so and this is often the root of most of our problems the fact that subconsciousness accepts an idea accepts the situation then reacts to it this brings about conditions like the blister. You might say it's the blister in our environment or the blister in our relationships. Now we know that there are an extraordinary number of schools of thought dealing with various phases of metaphysics and we also know that a good many of these schools of thought have some very fine things to teach. The thing we have to keep in mind is this, that wherever we go and this includes bota except that here i think you have found those of you who've been coming regularly and those who have not i'm sure will find that we help you to guard yourselves against receiving suggestions of being hypnotically receptive and reacting to things that you don't know are really so or not we try to help you to discover just what your powers of consciousness are and how to gain control of these states in order to become more of what you are destined to become and to become it more rapidly because of the various techniques that we teach you as well as methods for understanding who and what you are all right then in these various schools of thought we do have as we said many different ideas that are given out or taught or developed we know in Christian science there's a complete denial of matter as being real at all they call it something like mortal mind and they say mortal mind if it's only mortal mind it's an error and therefore it doesn't exist only God exists but this is being a little irrational I think if we will stop to analyze it because if only God exists then God must have created whatever they mean by mortal mind, to create the error.

And anyone who doesn't recognize this has stopped really analyzing thinking and reasoning, which makes that person, incidentally, more suggestible to the degree that we accept other people's suggestions, including their teachings, blindly, without bringing all our own powers to bear on analyzing whatever is being said. to that degree are we not practicing our true humanness and being truly human is one of the most fantastic miracles except that everything is a fantastic miracle and the more human we become the more we recognize this all right then this state of suggestibility or this willingness to to receive from other sources, ideas, to receive beliefs, to receive indeed commands.

And this is like a post-hypnotic suggestion in hypnosis, you know. Under hypnosis, the subject may be told that when you are awakened in ten minutes or so, or at whatever time I may snap my fingers or wink my eye or stamp my foot, it doesn't matter, they give them some symbol to set off the occurrence. The subject is told, you will be insatiably thirsty, or you will discover your feet are so hot that you can't stand it, or you will be taking off your shoes, and you won't really know why, or some kind of foolish thing, or even you might bark like a dog.

or meow like a cat. This has been done. And what happens? Here is the thing that helps us to understand our consciousness better. The post-hypnotic suggestion works. For instance, say ten minutes later, the subject, who is now back into so-called full consciousness, is chatting with a group. And all of a sudden, the subject will go, bow, wow, wow.

And everybody will look at them and say, now, why did you do that?

And do you know what always happens? The subject gives a very logical reason.

In other words, this is what we call rationalization. It gives a very logical reason. The subject may say something like, oh, I heard a dog barking in the distance and I just love dogs and it was just my way of sort of recognizing my affection. Or maybe the reverse.

It may sound silly to others, but the subject believes it. And it is the believing it his or her own rationalization, which causes a great deal of trouble when we take into account the fact that this is what we are all prone to do in our everyday situations. We do things, or we think things, or we feel things, which really are what you might call post-hypnotic suggestion or results of suggestibility then we take this magnificent consciousness of ours the self-conscious part of our minds the magician and that's really creating a magical act we make it sound plausible no matter what kind of nonsensical elements we have no matter what kind of sickness we have in our souls what kind of conditioning what kind of nonsense has been received from other people's immature thinking and feeling we take and rationalize this so that we know we don't think we know that we are right and what we don't realize is that what we are knowing is what somebody else told us to know for example let's take something like the scriptures i'm going going to shock you very much and this is good because we all need a little shock and we need it often life would get very boring without the shock actually but we take something like the scriptures now how often have you had people say to you uh in discussion of some religious or philosophical problem say well but after all it says so in the scriptures and that's supposed to end the argument I wonder if any of you felt that way once perhaps as children but you wouldn't be here if you had ever gotten fixated into that lovely bit of hypnosis after all it says so in the Bible I mean how can you answer that the Bible suddenly becomes sacrosanct it is something so tremendously holy it is the Word of God even where people have raped each other murdered each other committed adultery, have committed every kind of evil under the sun, and I mean every evil under the sun. This is the glorious, miraculous Word of God, and that finishes arguments. Well, does it?

The fact is, anything that you pick up in a book, anything that has been written, has come from a human being and in as much as it has come from a human being it is subject to the errors of that human being is it not therefore to correct a group of writings beautiful though they may be inspiring though at least a portion of them may be because to be perfectly honest with you I've never been very inspired over the fact that a bunch of people gathered together and went out and slew another group of people and blood poured and they cried out, God is with us. It seems like everyone who goes in for good heavy killing on the whole, except the Communists, who go the reverse. They say, ha ha, you see God is not with you, so there is no God. Except for that, why our killing instincts are all made something something holy and special. God is with us. And so off they go with their swords and guns and daggers, and now it's the atomic bombs. It doesn't matter what. The children get more and more powerfully large, destructive playthings to throw around, and I would say God knows where it will all end if I didn't already know where it will all end. And I'm very grateful to the Lord of Life But I do know where it will all end Nevertheless that is a subject for other a different talk than the one we're having this morning. The point is that Anyone who has achieved a level of true thinking who has released himself From at least a portion of the hypnosis of the undeveloped last mind Certainly is going to have developed enough discrimination enough search and yearning for reality to question the fact that just because something is in a book that makes it absolute holy and true of course you all realize or at least most of you realize that the work of Qabalah is very much involved with the Bible and indeed it's only the Qabalist who knows what the Bible is meant to represent, since it has been those, it has been those who've been trained in the mystery teachings and in the mystery techniques, and therefore had a symbolic language of their own. Only these knew what they were talking about, and the rest of the people have taken a lot of literal translations from things which were symbolically represented, in first the oral teachings, then in the writings, and then made a master God out of it.

And then they preached to us about not worshipping false images, when where was a greater false image ever worshipped than with our Jewish and Christian people in the Bible, and again with other groups in whatever their particular Bible is, the Christian scientists with their science of health, with key to the scriptures and you know it's a sin to read anything else just like with the Christian ideology it's a sin to become involved with or pay attention to or learn about other things and there was a time when we had a great deal of very spiritual bloodshed if you will recall because of people having the unmitigated, unspiritual gall to question the fact that the Bible has the Word of God, it is truth, and this is the one and only Church. And then what happened? Those who were not spiritual enough to see this were put on racks, they were burned, they were tortured, all for the sake of the soul. Well the point is we do this now in other subtle ways this is the bigotry of the mind which is the subconscious part of the mind which is that has received suggestions from incorrect self-conscious uh evaluation from incorrect self-conscious watching uh if you'll notice as our beloved reverend heritby case read from the Bible where Jesus said watch watch you know that's one word but this is so potent the self-consciousness of man is meant to be continuously on guard watch and what is it supposed to watch not other people with great suspicion so at times that's wise too but oneself because the first place you have to work in in fact the only place you can do your primary work in is with yourself to become aware of the or your own subconsciousness so notice the symbolism notice the magician holding his magic wand this is the magic wand of attention incidentally the magic wand of attention is receiving the power from above that is from super consciousness or the higher self and that Notice why you have the figure H shown there, too.

That's a figure for infinity.

And he is receiving this power of attention. And what is he doing? He's planting in the garden. You notice the other hand points down. And you see this garden. Well, the high priestess is another symbol for the garden because, as I pointed out to you before, there are many symbols for the same principles in order to get a fully developed awareness stirred in your own consciousness. therefore a person back to hypnosis under the state of hypnosis what occurs this person sets aside his own self-consciousness I think you can see this and he permits somebody else a hypnotist to take the place of his own self-consciousness so somebody else then gives suggestions to subconsciousness of the person under hypnosis and because the setting aside of self-consciousness isn't exactly complete, but it is set aside in this way that it is focused down in other words all of the powers of self-consciousness are focused down into becoming the concentration point for the hypnotist this is what makes the suggestion so potent under hypnosis you see because of this concentrating this is the same thing with us my darlings when we are concentrated down with our self-consciousness that is uh locked away from looking over the entire area as we should when we lock ourselves down concentrate our awareness or attention down to a small point like for instance the Bible is the word and everything else is of the devil or if you don't believe in my political party then of course you are under the or in the grip of something very evil whichever it might be all of these ideas is there's a focusing down there's an inability then to look around at the whole picture i used to at one time before it became very dangerous to do so i used to recommend to people in order to keep themselves free from the hypnotic influence of all things i used to recommend that they owed it to their own ability to think and evaluate for example in terms of politics to read no less than at least five types of newspapers and to read them every day keep one busy that is they should read the republican point of view the democratic point of view the socialist point of view the fascist point of view and the communist point of view then here they are looking at the exact things that are being said this is an education because you notice then that everybody is doing what they're trying to hypnotize you into being a blister or having a blister in a sense by narrowing yourself down to just that one thought or the one point of view and i have heard more people say well i'm against communism and uh although i don't know why it's just that i i know it's bad because everyone says this, though. Well, do you know, it happens to be true that communism is something that is a very sad thing, inasmuch as it is at least the communism of the Bolsheviks and the Chinese communists present it. It certainly is a very unhappy type of teaching because it is so materialistically oriented. This dialectical materialism, this withdrawal from spiritual qualities, this withdrawal from the reach of the heart and soul to learn from you know in ever larger measures and to receive the larger awarenesses from a super the superconscious level which we can call God because it is God this is truly very tragic and for this reason certainly I would agree that it is one but only one of the many false and very false and dangerous teachings that are brought about or given out on this planet nevertheless a person who's against a thing without knowing why mainly because they have been propagandized for it you see is giving up his birthright you may be against it for the right for the right wrong reason just as much as suppose you're for something that's good and right and there are things like things relative good relative evil at a time but if you are for that something that is good or right without knowing why but only because you have been propagandized you're merely being what an automatic suggestible response mechanism you have given up your own self-conscious powers of evaluation because you need to know why and you You only know why you have certain ideas or thoughts or attitudes when you have looked into the full picture.

And this is what we're here for, to know how all these forces work. Then we're in a position to react properly. So what is the great work according to Qabalah? The true great work amounts to a type of cleansing.

and this really is the primary work for an awfully long time and I'm going to explain why. Now what is this cleansing? This cleansing really means that we have to un-hypnotize ourselves. We have to throw away all the conditionings we have received that have been forced into us or which we have with lack of discrimination a lot of practice of our own powers of knowing and learning received into us because of not being evolved enough at the time or mature enough to refuse entry to refuse to be what you might call a propagandized reactor to whatever people want you to react to and this is what we are mainly incidentally through the subconscious patterns that are formed by receiving this point of view so everyone born in a certain religion they are conditioned from the moment they're born to figure that unless they follow it in exactly this way they're going to go to hell or whatever is equal to that and then when their mind starts to work if they're other type of person who cannot be conditioned or held in the conditioning forever if the soul is reaching out and breaking barriers along with it because of these this conditioning which is a hypnosis you know in other words the receiving of suggestions drop upon drop upon drop what occurs then is that we have these guilt complexes and then these various guilt complexes unrecognized by the conscious mind keep us in a state of tension in a state of unhappiness make us unable to really attain to shall we say constructive relationships that are stable because we're not stable inside we're being washed we're being washed by these furies the fight in other words we keep a battle going inside of ourselves and why because we have not yet learned the complete principle that's involved with subconsciousness and this is what of course we are attempting to do is all of the work of bota approaching it from many angles we go round and round a circle hitting from each side so that everyone must catch the principle in some way and then get to understand it from the entire circle and be able to see it from any point of view after a while.

So this takes time.

Now, let me try to show you a few examples of just what happens with subconsciousness and its powers. And, incidentally, the powers are remarkable. I mean, after all, keep in mind it is the power of your subconsciousness which we share with each other. It gives you the ability to project a body, to react with beauty and glory as well as in the other manner. So that we're not saying that subconsciousness is only a seller for the filth and the immaturity and the nonsense and the hatred. No, because it also contains the knowledge of all things that has ever been because it is the pattern receiver receiver as the Tarot keys show and Therefore it also receives patterns from the divine the higher soul and it is along these patterns That manifestation comes the the substance of life collects around the pattern and this is what brings physical Manifestations whether it be a nebula a star or a human being There is a pattern from consciousness the higher super consciousness that brings us about nevertheless we as individualized the elements within the one life also have developed powers the powers of God which we are or little godlets as I like to call us since we're not very grown up and yet it shows us in the spirit of our true being as little godlets you see we We also have been making patterns and receiving patterns from other areas.

And some of them have been pretty nonsensical. In as much as a two-year-old child, the listening to the radio figures as a man or a woman are hiding behind it to make the music.

And this is the belief of the immature. But as we mature, we start to see the thing more clearly. We develop more of the capacity to understand. so the primary job for every true aspirant is to learn how to purify subconsciousness and why it must be purified and by purification we do not mean only getting the various elements out of subconsciousness which fundamental religion tells us to because some of the things they might want us to get rid of we might figure they're pretty nice and we want to hang on to them after all we have some pretty good habit patterns we wouldn't know how to type those of us who type if we didn't form some excellent habit patterns in order to be good typists and the same way we couldn't walk if we hadn't formed good habit patterns learning how to balance our body so that we could walk so it's a matter of what habit patterns naturally now here is what occurs through subconsciousness uh that confuses aspirants so much And this is one of the perhaps the most important points we need to understand for this morning's talk Then we'll continue with the ideas through the month as I told you. Now, for example, let's take Various individuals who have been canonized or made saints by one of our large church churches one of the largest and See just what has really been done there what the principle is behind what has occurred. You've all heard of the phenomenon which is called stigmata. Now those of you who do not know what stigmata is, I'm going to just give you a brief explanation. The person under hypnosis has a pencil that's touched to his hand and this person is told this is a lighted cigarette and he raises a blister. This is called stigmata.

Therefore a stigmata is the appearance of something on the body like a burn or blood or a blister that is not caused by what we ordinarily call physical means. In other words, there was no real cigarette put to the arm.

The consciousness believed that there was a burning cigarette put to the arm and the blister came. Now then, in all sorts of religious thinking, we have this concentration that people go in for because this is the power of man to concentrate what we have to do is learn how and where and when and when not of course so in this power of concentration let's say we have somebody who's a natural mystic and this mystic has a group of images that he believes in very profoundly because he's accepted it he's accepted it because he's been hypnotized into accepting it by his parents and his environment and his priest or minister or what have you and so he has this set of definite beliefs which he knows he doesn't just believe he knows it because that's one of the problems about believing something you usually unhappily know it and some of the things we know are startling all right now this person meditates on dear Jesus.

And this person, either a sadist or a masochist as far as I'm concerned, you may not agree with me. And so it gives him great joy in rapture to meditate on the crucifixion of Jesus and to meditate and he becomes terribly inspired over the blood trickling down from the thorns and the open wound. This is a spiritual thing to him. God knows why.

anybody knows if you'll explain it to me I'll appreciate it because I can't never understood anyone being able to feel an exaltation over pain never and this in itself to me is sick utterly sick and I hope none of you and any of you have it you'll go to work and unhap it as fast as possible all right now there's this meditation taking place and then oh joy of joys somebody has become really saintly they develop stigmata they have so identified themselves the suffering of Christ that the blood pours down their face and the wound opens and the hands have the blood and the nails and people come from all around to look and do and on get inspired and say oh isn't God wonderful well if I was going to argue with God I'd argue with God about the idea that anyone should think that that's wonderful it's an inevitable part of growth I realize, and this we have to accept, pain is necessary to growth, but why we should let ourselves screech and say glory hallelujah over the wonders of it is beyond me, except that perhaps we still have a little of the barbarian in us, and at least the one thing about youth which is inevitable, we will outgrow it, won't we?

Whatever it is, that's the thing that comforts me and perhaps the rest of us. so we have this phenomena of stigmata and of course this is those who are shall we say suggestible enough who can concentrate intensely enough on a picture that gives them the most excitement or stirrings of whatever kind they develop this phenomena and they think that it's a very spiritual thing well why should developing the stigmata of the sufferings of christ be more spiritual than the blister that you get when you put a cigarette on the hand will you tell me why and this is where practically all of religion and all of metaphysics and occultism falls into error by trying to put labels on things and say that the ability to have a psychic phenomenon because now i will just point out that the phenomena under hypnosis is really a psychic phenomena What is psychic phenomena? It is a phenomena which involves subconsciousness.

This is what psychic phenomena actually is. The powers of subconsciousness become more easily seen. They're not so hidden. You know, Isis hides herself behind veils and under certain conditions they become more easily seen, especially under conditions of hypnosis. And there are many people with a sort of vehicle so that they can take their consciousness and in a way you might say step aside from the full self-conscious control and point it down in such a way that they have a great deal of what we call psychic experiences now this is very interesting because it helps us to see how the subconsciousness works in so many ways but you see psychic experiences are no more spiritual than the ability to raise a blister this is the thing that I'm trying to impress upon you and the ability to raise a blister through suggestibility is completely tied up with the same ideas that are tied up with suggestibility that is receiving ideas from other people being propagandized by other people accepting their decisions of right and wrong and correct and incorrect instead of being determined to become the real inheritor of your destiny as soon as possible that is by learning how to decide what doesn't does not go into your subconsciousness and how to understand it so that in a cult is and what we do we learn to watch you know the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak as was read to us well what is it that makes the flesh weak it isn't the flesh that's weak the spirit is willing but subconsciousness is conditioned and the flesh or the body or the actions always go in accordance with the conditionings that are in subconsciousness. Now subconsciousness will always be conditioned, but the idea is what conditionings? What we decide to condition it with or what we've received from immature levels through past incarnations as well as this childhood because it's a long series that's involved therefore cleansing subconsciousness is vital because unless we do so whatever spiritual experiences we have will be colored by our subconscious pictures and beliefs and therefore will not be dependable you see the level of receiving shall we say revelations when it comes from psychic level or subconsciousness is never dependable there might be one thing right and ten things wrong there might be nine things right and one thing wrong and the one thing that's wrong would make the nine things right utterly different from what they would be otherwise so they're not right after all it's like the person who's completely imbued with certain of the figures in Christian symbolism who getting into a suggestible state receives the impact of certain thought forms and ideas from a group or one and then suddenly his spiritual experience he sees God like for instance if somebody I knew saw Father Divine now this person was an educated person he saw Father Divine during a meeting on a throne with all the trappings every detail that we've read about in the Bible was there and Father Divine sitting with all the harp playing everything going on and he had an instant conversion and he He left everything and he joined Father Divine's camp.

Well, at least the Father Divine camp helped to take a lot of people and teach them how to be more loving, which is more than we can say for an awful lot of other groups I know of. But the point is, as far as he was concerned, Father Divine was the literal God called Jehovah because he had this, what? He had this illumination. he had the ecstasy that came with it he had the rapture that came with it in other words he had a message he saw directly into heaven and truth and that was that for him that was his truth but why could he have had that experience because of the conditioning now a person who is completely involved in roman catholicism will have his experiences in the symbols of roman catholicism those completely immersed in the Protestant religions their spiritual experiences will have that symbolism though their weakness with Protestantism is it hasn't got enough symbols and so it keeps people from having as many spiritual experiences because there's nothing for the force to wrap itself around in other words it wraps spiritual experiences when they are had on psychic level are not completely spiritual because it's looking through a window when you look at a star and I look at a star we do not experience the same thing because my subconsciousness reacts in one way to a star and yours in another when I look at a cat for instance there I adore cats and I love to have cats run me around and improve how much more character they have than I have I have a completely different reaction to my cat than somebody who looks at the cat and doesn't like that why we're looking through our own subconscious conditionings some of them are good some are bad some are indifferent some don't mean anything are you starting to see the point so there isn't any experience we can have if we have it on the level of form if we have it on the level of sound if we have it on the level of psychic telepathic intercommunication which is not wrong by wrong I mean which which is not filled with false images and therefore mixed.

For instance, a person who could be truly psychic and sincere, what? He has an experience. And you see this happens in your everyday life. I'm showing it to you on that level. So he has an experience of making some kind of contact with what appears to him in the experience to be something that's existing now.

As a matter of fact, in the subconscious state, past, present, and future are very much confused.

And there's no way of really telling the difference, and people could tell you that the future is something that was. As a matter of fact, even in the people who have spiritual experiences, really, the truly higher spiritual experiences, uncolored with subconscious conditionings, have always been able to recognize this. And these, incidentally, are very few. and what we're trying to do with you is train you how to have real ones and not get caught up in these traps because they can see something that has been as something that's going to be something that was or That's going to be as something that already was there all the time senses are mixed up because they're seeing patterns In an area where time and space is not functioning as it does here at all And it doesn't even exist as such there's a different kind of awareness on the psychic just the psychic level mind you But bringing it through subconsciousness. There's all this confusion So people are having conversations with flying saucer people with Jupiterians and Neptunians and Zanujians And they're having conversations with Father Divine and they're having conversations with God God Almighty Jehovah and they're having conversations with Christ the Lord and and all they're doing is having conversations with colored images which may have a portion of spiritual inspiration in it but it can't come through because the glass the coloring changes it therefore to accept that's why you hear us say so often to accept what others tell you including including ourselves, just as a blanket like that, is interfering with your own growth.

We want you to develop the ability to know what subconsciousness is. As you work these tarot keys, working with them, help to bring more and more awareness, watching your own states. When I was a little girl of five, I used to watch people's, my own subconscious states, and a couple of times I deliberately told a lie because I was trying to see how other people reacted to it, whether they could tell the difference between a lie or the truth. And in this way, it would help me to understand a little better what consciousness was like. And I was very interested to discover that other people couldn't tell the difference. That if I said I'd taken a walk north, and actually I'd gone south, and I had no reason to, this was experimentation. They believed me. And I said, how very interesting. And so I watched myself and then I watched people and I started to see their subconsciousness and I saw how they were believing their own nonsense How I would hear people say, oh, I just have such a Unselfish feeling about so-and-so and all the time. I knew that they were just exalting themselves With this feeling of being unselfish where they were being hypocrites because they were making quite a bit of gain out of that situation and they just got lost in their own self exaltation and this I noticed a principle I keep watching from then to now so you see watching your own principles as watching the way your own subconsciousness works helps you to understand the way others work it helps you to protect yourself and to cleanse yourself so that you can receive through super consciousness without these colorations and that is another thing I'll talk to you about what that state actually is and is not and how to differentiate more through this group of talks this month but at least now i hope you can understand we are really magical miracles what we do with our consciousness is extraordinary uh to understand what we do doesn't mean that we'll stop doing it but the miracle of your walking day by day watching the things you can do and starting to use it positively so that you can be the healer you can be the spreader of love and divinity using the same principle that makes you now walk in uh nonsense this is the thing that we're after it isn't becoming different it's learning how to use what we are for real rapture and ecstasy that we share with each other
