Our talk for this morning is Mystical Kingdom of Embodied Spirit.

That, of course, is referring to Malkuth. By now, those of you who have been coming regularly certainly know that this Qabalistic Tree of Life is, in essence, the map of consciousness. consciousness, consciousness in its universal aspect as well as consciousness in its personal aspects, consciousness in all aspects, wherever it is, even where we do not recognize it as being in existence.

So that once we have a map of consciousness, this map, remember, having been given man according to tradition by the Angels after the fall of Adam Adam remember meaning generic humanity this map having been given in order that man may have helped may find a way to return from whence he came to regain whatever is truly meant by the Garden of Eden and what is the Garden of Eden many of you have heard me speak of this before one of its most important meanings really is time time and space God placed Adam that is humanity in the Garden of Eden that is in time and space in order for man to keep and dress it so time and space refer actually to the ability and the capacity to have the kind of consciousness which can experience this extraordinary aspect of the universe and it can experience this aspect through what you have to have a body a vehicle so that dressing as a matter of fact when you keep and dress something you actually even give it when you dress it you put a dress over it you give it a vehicle and what is it that the consciousness of man on the physical plane really does stop and think for a moment isn't it because of this special vehicle that we have that reacts to certain vibrations in a special way isn't it because of this that we experience other things in the way we do for example we know that there are vibrations in the cosmos such vastnesses that it takes the most complicated kinds of instruments that my that the mind of man can invent in order to become aware of a very small segment of them and yet man the eyes of man are able to be aware of the most infinitesimal fraction of all these vibrations vibrations, a certain range which we call the range in light, and it's such a small range that it covers through, when you put this light through a prism, it covers what is called the fastest vibration that man can register.

The consciousness interprets a vibration it's aware of that hits on a portion of the eye, the apparent outer eye. man's consciousness can only register from the the most rapid vibration which is in the in the violet scale to the slowest vibration right down from violet right down to what we call the scale of red this is what the eyes register now through instruments which are extensions tensions of the eyes in a sense. Man also can register ranges that go into the ultraviolet. We don't see it, the ultraviolet, but think how potent ultraviolet is. Without the ultraviolet rays, man could not live in and through the vehicle that he does, and with too much of the ultraviolet rays he will be killed he has to have just so much just so much not too much and not too little survival depends on just that amount of unseen energy that is vibrations in a range utterly unseen before man evolved his intellect where he could extend his range of awareness man still could only live within certain ranges of this ultraviolet but he had no knowledge of it now not having knowledge of it didn't make it any the less true and in the same way not having knowledge of other areas or levels of vibration doesn't mean that they're not there we live in an ocean of vibration but we when we have what we call a physical body we are aware of only a segment of these vibrations and this awareness is not something that or we can call it this limitation of awareness is not something that has come about by chance it is the actual requirement that the Lord of the universe has in order to develop the instruments that will give the very specialized experience that we call time and space and the specialized experience that we call time and space is the ability to limit our attention or to have our attention limited to that range of vibrations that gives us the aspects of for example touch because bear in mind when we touch anything what we are doing really is touching something that is in a vibratory rate and because the vibratory rate of what our bodies consist of because our bodies really are atoms in vibration ask any atomic scientist and he'll tell you that you that which you experience is a physical body actually is composed of atoms specially held together in some kind of field and the elect the occultist has known this throughout the ages and this field actually that holds these vibrations together is the field of consciousness so it is consciousness that is concentrated into a special field that attracts to itself certain portions of vibrations you think of the ocean of vibrations in the universe as being one way we think of the mind stuff of God you could say that we experience a very limited aspect of the mind stuff of God via these fields of consciousness which keep which makes us experience ourselves as being something solid.

And yet the only reason we can experience ourselves as being something solid is because the atoms that vibrate this field that we call our bodies are in conjunction to the vibrations of, or say, the vibrations of the atoms that make up this particular portion of the pulpit, the podium, the chair you sit upon, they actually are vibrating at approximately the same rate. It's like if you take the best analogy, which I've used before, but I've never been able to think of a better analogy than that, is if you take a fan, an electric fan, and you run it at a certain speed when you look at it it looks solid furthermore if you throw sand at it that's it's going to knock the sand right back into your eyes if you're not careful it's going to hit back just as though it hits something very solid indeed and yet if you stop the motion which is like stopping the vibrations of that fan you see it isn't something solid it It was the motion that was going so rapidly that it reacted towards us as something solid.

In the same way, everything we experience as solid is because the vibrations of that which we call our body and the vibrations of that which we call a building and a tree and a creature and a chair and all things are in conjunction with each other where you might say we we hit back vibratorily a vibration goes out and knocks back to us and it's been actually then it is the flashback of the vibration which another which sometimes is also called the reflection of the vibration back to us which gives us the experience of something solid and that's part of what makes the consciousness of man in fact it's the important part that makes the consciousness of men then experience the mind stuff of God in a specialized way that is interpreted in whatever manner we do interpret it so that for instance vibrations that are vibrating in a special manner in a special field field, which we experience as a tree, are being experienced as a tree because that field of mind stuff is holding the image of itself, and remember it's the image of God, because God is the creator of all things. The image that the divine consciousness holds becomes becomes the field that brings about that which we call physical matter.

So we experience the world in such a way, we give it a name, we say physical matter. And yet, from the point of view of the atomic scientist, for example, the world isn't made up of physical matter at all. it's made up of atoms each atom being as far from the next atom as a star is from another star in the heavens so that you can say all physical matter is made up of empty space with points of light and yet we experience solidity and the solidity we experience incidentally is not untrue because there's nothing more definite there's nothing more true than a field of energy a field of consciousness that is fixed in a specific image in motion because it isn't really fixed it's the motion like the motion of the fan and that's why it has been said that Malkuth the the kingdom this is how it's taught in Qabalah which remembers the secret wisdom of Israel the secret wisdom of Israel giving us the map of consciousness and what is true about consciousness and about life and the universe in general and what to do about it as a matter of fact so that the Qabalah says the kingdom the kingdom incidentally refers to the entire physical universe in its complete and most universal sense as well as to our individual vehicle, whether it be the tiniest thing we call a body or the vast aspects of what we call bodies. This is all still referred to as the kingdom. And the Qabalist is taught taught that this kingdom, that is the physical universe, our physical body as well as all physical bodies like stars and so on, this kingdom, this Malkuth, is in Kether, that's the One, the Crown. And that means the One, the Indivisible, the I AM THAT I AM, remember.

Malkuth, the kingdom, is in Kether, the Crown, the One, and that's the Cosmic Self. And that one the only the indivisible the cosmic self is in the kingdom Malkuth the physical universe but after another manner now what do they mean but after another manner it's in a different way obviously so that what we are being told what we are being taught is that the entire physical physical universe is inside of God, the One, the Only, the Indivisible. Furthermore, God, the One, the Only, the Indivisible, the I AM THAT I AM, the Cosmic Self, is in the physical universe but in a different way. And it is our work, our great work, it is also our privilege, those of us who've been guided here to receive the secret wisdom of Israel its teaching and its training it is our privilege to come to understand the significance of this to be taught what to do about this particular principle so that we will definitely and consciously know not just accept accept as a theory, but know by direct experience that I am in the Cosmic Self and the Cosmic Self is in me.

Not just me, my soul. Not just me, my spirit.

The mystical kingdom of embodied spirit is the title of this talk. And what we are attempting to help you to see is that everything we call physical is spirit. Let's call it condensed spirit, or let's call it spirit in a special rate of vibratory motion emotion so that it is experienced as something other than spirit because we have come to separate the idea of what is physical and what is spiritual. And of course, separating this idea in our minds has been a necessary thing for the sake of evolution in order to develop conscious awareness. still once a certain area or a level of evolution is accomplished which means once we have attained our individuality which comes from this experience of being separate from spirit once we have attained this individuality then the great work and the essential work is to go to work to return turn from whence we came but not to escape from where we are no never that much of the teachings in in some of the Eastern schools of thought try to tell us that what we want to do is to develop such fabulous spirituality that we will never never have to incarnate again in this terrible world of pain so that the idea becomes escape from the physical universe one way or another well in Qabalah we have of course the very basic and it's very basic teaching that the the kingdom of heaven is within you now remember this is one of the definite aspects of the secret teaching of israel that jesus was very clear on remember he was trained in the secret wisdom of israel jesus was a cabalist otherwise he could not have had this knowledge because this is where all the knowledge has been taught down through these thousands of years and he had obtained through this training the discipline and having gained these levels of awareness traveling these paths of return using this map to bring attainment to himself and he was ready for this attainment he made it very clear the kingdom of heaven is within in other words what the thing Jesus was trying to say and the thing Qabalah attempts to explain consistently is that whatever our state of consciousness that is where we are the state of consciousness is hell so we're in hell where else can hell be the state of consciousness is heaven we're in heaven heaven. Where else can heaven be? Consciousness is all there is. What we call the physical universe is not what it seems. The physical universe cannot be separated from the divine beingness. How could it be? Then it's saying that there's something that's outside of God, which is an utter impossibility. God is all there is. Therefore, the physical universe cannot be outside so if we experience hell it's because our consciousness has not yet learned how to experience heaven and it's not going to learn how to experience heaven in some non-physical by and byness even though there are levels or planes of being that are non-physical this is true still when you remember the theory of reincarnation which is a definite aspect of Qabalah you must remember that the soul must keep coming back or put it another way the soul must dress itself to dress and keep self in the garden of time and space over and over again until it It learns how to bring the kingdom of heaven to earth by developing that kind of consciousness.

This kind of knowing wraps itself around this planet and beyond because consciousness is not limited to the body. it uses the body for specialized seeing specialized touching specialized tasting specialized hearing and that specialized is something so precious so utterly treasured because it's specialized and it It is so specially treasured and loved because the consciousness isn't limited to that. It is therefore able to more appreciate the miracle and beauty of your fantastic, apparent limitation.

Therefore, one who has experienced true cosmic awareness loves your limitation.

Isn't that nice? Think about it for a moment. Loves it not as something that they want you to be enslaved in. Loves it because it is something special to you and knows you cannot be enslaved in it even if you think you are temporarily, knowing that your consciousness is something vaster even if you are not consciously aware of it yet. Because any place your consciousness sweeps, you see, you are in your inmost self, Kether, the one, the only, the indivisible, the cosmic self. Your I am is not any separate something from that. And so when your consciousness sweeps to a star, it's there, even though you have not yet developed the organs in this dress, this raiment of the divine you call the body, although you have not yet evolved the organs to be able to be aware of this fully or perhaps even partially. In other words, once we attain to a specific goal, and every goal has to be attained in and through the kingdom, the kingdom is the flower of the tree.

That's why, you know, the Qabalistic tree of life is thought of very often as being the upper part, that we call upper is really the root of the tree into the limitless light, the einsap bower. and it's said to hang downward more or less and experiencing the physical universe in all its ways is the fruit of the tree but after the perfection of the fruit which means after we have perfected a vehicle in and through which our seven inner holy planets also called the seven chakras have become fully awakened so that we can experience ourselves as being the divine incarnate, so that we can experience the tree as being God's mystical expression, so that we can experience all physical things in such a way as to know know, this is the mystery and miracle of divinity, so that we can walk in awe and in magic, really magic.

Walk that way because we see the physical universe for what it is, rather than for what we thought it was. When we attain to that goal, from that, just like a fruit always has the seed, and you you take the seed and from the seed you can plant a new tree. From one goal, say the attainment of whatever is considered cosmic consciousness and the perfection of this particular vehicle, from this will come other goals and other cycles of vast infinity. The point that we have to be be able to make, basically, is that an entire spiritual discipline, a very different kind of spiritual discipline, has to be built up into our minds. And we have to practice this. We have to come to see that people who act egotistical are really expressing an inferiority complex, not a recognition of whom what they are. When we practice knowing whom what we we are, we're not going to be egotistical, because knowing who and what we are means that we're looking at all of the universe in the same way. Therefore, the One, the Divine, is in the Kingdom, but after another fashion, after another manner, in such a way that not only do we start recognizing this in ourselves by practicing it and looking in the mirror and saying, look at the miracle God has brought.

You see, not until we can look upon our personalities with its physical vehicle, as after all belonging to God, basically, are we going to be in a position to figure, of course it's lovable if it belongs to God, it's lovable. So I'll tell you what, I want everybody to practice this. Keep giving your body and your personality over to God. It's there anyway, you understand. I mean, don't think that you're doing God a favor because God's already got you.

But what you're trying to do is to consciously share.

Maybe God isn't enjoying it at the moment, but that's up to us to change, you know, with God, of course, to prepare ourselves to be able to experience that which it is our destiny to experience and it is our responsibility to learn how to experience it. In other words, we keep giving, you know, God might say to us, look, don't do me any favors, I already have you. But God won't, because the divine consciousness wants us to be able to share in and through the personality, this innermost beingness and specialness. So we have to practice reminding reminding ourselves this really becomes then a reminder this is your body god and you know exactly what to do with it to make to help to perfect it so that it can express your divine beauty and ever greater measure this is your personality god you know think how much more personality we've got you know there's an expression gee so and so has a lot of personality personality. Now, think how much more personality each and every one of us will have as we keep handing our personality over to God, because, you see, since God is vast and infinite, more of that vast infinitude can start expressed in and through us. And that means, naturally, that in time and space we will be able to express that much more personality, adorable Adorable personality, because surely if we can adore our own children and our pets, we cannot figure that the divine is going to feel any less that way towards its children, our personalities, our vehicles, and so on.

so we have to keep offering our personality our vehicles to God more because it's a reminder to ourselves this is thy personality I want thy vision through my eyes and when you look at a tree keep saying God is seeing this tree through me you experience you are worrying about your personality god this is your personality and if it's your personality i have to be quite adorable don't i would you think god's personality can be less the more we let god's personality express to us the more adorable we're going to be because you see nothing can resist god and yet god is in you so to the degree that you walk god think god talk god but don't try to get away from the physical because that's blaspheming God's raiment and vehicle it's in and through the physical that all this must come and develop then we will be able to touch everything with this reference we will be able to train ourselves so to do and we will see that every sorrow of yesterday every agony every pain illness whether it be of the body or of the spirit has been a divine and loving preparation to give us the capacity to look and to say there is the mysterious manifestation of God this embodied spirit of God walks here and we'll see it in our little bit little dog a little cat and a little flower in the star we'll see it in the galaxy we'll see it in our beloved ones we'll see it in our friends and you know but we'll even see it in our enemies what do you think of that we'll see it and we'll feel it and we'll taste it in the wind and in every drop of water it's everywhere this is real cosmic consciousness this is bringing heaven to earth this is in store for you remember practice it God the miracle
