One of the most profound Qabalistic books in the entire Bible. All of the Bible, as you know, which involves the basic teachings of the Word of God given by the Prophets, is based on the Qabalah. And as you know, a true understanding of the Bible, both Old and New Testament, is dependent on knowing Qabalah. And of course, this is what builders of the adytum teaches. This is our mission. We are the custodians of this very ancient and rich, not only teaching, but training system, which is the esoteric aspect of the work. Now then, in the book of Revelation, you notice it mentioned so many times, the number seven, the seven churches, the seven candlesticks, the seven angels, and so on. Well, these basically refer, incidentally, on the tree of life to the seven spheres of activity of God, which in man have their contact through the seven centers or the seven holy planets or as they call it in the Eastern philosophy the seven chakras in other words the bright lighting of these centers of these chakras is dependent on the other correct interpretation of what is meant by he who liveth and was dead, which, as we all know, refers to Jesus Christ.

And remember, as we have told you so often, that in Qabalah, the Christ consciousness, which in Hebrew was called Messiah, meaning in English Savior, and the Greek rendition of this is Christ, this refers to that yellow Sephirah, the one called Beauty, and this also refers in Qabalah to generic humanity which is known in Qabalah both as the Son of God and the Son of Man and remember also that Jesus had the conscious realization of being the Son of God and therefore the Son of Man therefore also acquiring the powers of this state of consciousness we are are likewise, exactly as Jesus was, the Son of God and the Son of Man. We have not yet become aware of it, at least not in full. Some of us have a certain degree of awareness in this area, and some have more, some less. Nevertheless, like children growing up, we are all destined, as Jesus promised, to have exactly the same consciousness and the same powers, We know that our children are going to be able to do the same things that we can do when they grow up and have the body, the development, the training, which we give them when we send them to school, when we discipline them, and so on.

The same is true of ourselves. And those of us who are privileged to gather together in a work like this, we at least can comfort ourselves by saying we are a little older than perhaps the 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 year olds because we are already in more of the intensive process and we never know who amongst us might suddenly have that same flash that Jesus had originally the same flash that John had and from then on it becomes a matter of making it more and more constant in our consciousness, of becoming more and more of a, of, shall we say, an instrument for expressing these powers.

So he who liveth and was dead, remember, this is us. It isn't just a man who was born 2,000 years ago. Though we revere and love this being, this vast and great soul for having the courage, the quality, the depth of spirit and love to help thrash the way through jungles, beating down the weeds, facing the unknown dangers in order to get a path more firmly established for those who come after.

and for this we owe this great soul the most incomprehensible debt and certainly the most infinite kind of love that we can be capable of nevertheless the fact that the path has been established since then it is definitely known there have been been many, although we would wish it were more, who have been able to follow in these footsteps, just as Jesus asked when he said, follow me. And when in the vision John heard, I am the beginning and the end, I am Alpha and Omega. Remember, this is true of us. Basically, that which is our true center of being is in this Tiphareth area that's called beauty. basically this is our higher soul guiding the personality into its growth process basically that true ego which in Qabalah again this is called the true ego seated in the hearts of men basically this is that highest level of consciousness which never was born will never die truly it is at one with the beginning and the end the Alpha and the Omega and it is in learning how to tune in to that level of our beingness that we truly attain to the guidance of the Great Ones and are kept from making some of these mistakes from blundering from falling from bruising ourselves as often as we do and let us go into that a little more fully now for tuning in to the great ones because we all need as we never needed it before we all need to feel that we are being guided and that we are being guided or right we all need to develop that sense of consciousness God the higher self Christ the Masters of wisdom, whatever terms instill a more deeper inspirational response in us, we need to develop that sense of being able to contact these levels for greater wisdom, insight, understanding, self-transmutation, the conducting of ourselves, our thinking, our feeling, our life affairs, our relationships. We need this desperately and especially in this era during this period where we are having truly an amazing spiritual revolution taking place on all the planes below the plane of Tiphareth or beauty. Now then let's try to understand how we can teach ourselves, train ourselves to have this sure guidance in this particular Tarot key you see before you cabalistically that is assigned to the inner teacher the inner teacher and it is also assigned to all the ideas that have to do with father the cosmic father the masculine a directive principle in the universe the All the various symbols in this key allude to that.

The kneeling figures, for instance. You see the lilies on one figure, you see the roses on the other. The lilies symbolize knowledge, the roses desire emotion, love. These are kneeling before the Father, before the Father, the Cosmic Father. In other words, the personality is willing to give up, to kneel before the cosmic life principle in order to have true guidance rather than the conditioned sort of messages that so many human beings get, especially if they are psychic and so many of the misleading ones. And we are going to explain that now because we need this help on the way. In Qabalah it is definitely known and has been known down through the immeasurable centuries that the great work has to do with the transmutation of the subconscious level of our consciousness, basically. and not until this is accomplished can we have a full physiological or physical regeneration or rejuvenation where we can also say he liveth who was dead of ourselves i was dead and now i live because true life is total life and it might well be that a physical incarnation where the the development is still so immersed in the illusions, is more death than life.

And what evolution is all about, what Jesus truly was trying to teach through his own supreme tabalistic insight and wisdom, what he was trying to teach was that this cosmic life must be brought down into the earth, into the body, into the elements, into the seven churches, the seven candlesticks, in and through the seven centers in a balanced formation so that we can be truly living sons and daughters of the Most High in full knowledge of the fact that we are the Alpha and the Omega.

Now then, the dangers that are involved, of course, in trying to train oneself to tune in to the guidance of the Great Ones has to do with this very subconscious element. Now, on the tree of life, that ninth Sephirah, the one called foundation, the one directly above the bottom one in the center, this is called yesed, the foundation, and it is assigned kabbalistically to the astral world, to the subconsciousness. it is assigned to the very foundation of all physical manifestation in this way surely we all know by now that it is subconsciousness that creates that is by creates we mean it does the work of building the physical body it is subconsciousness that that keeps this physical body in function, that beats the heart, that secretes the elements in the liver, the spleen, that circulates the blood. It is the subconsciousness that works all the amazing, miraculous elements that keep any kind of physical vehicle alive in motion, expressing through that particular form.

And this is true whether it be the form of a flower, of an insect, of an animal, or a man. That's why it is said that this particular sphere of consciousness or activity is shared by human beings with all life below the human. human, because the whole mass subconsciousness is that level of cosmic consciousness which knows how to build the amazing organized thing we call bodies, forms. And our particular little field or share as human beings is within this, shall we say, ocean of subconsciousness. It isn't anything separate from it. And we are influenced by the entire mass, remember, including all that which is below the evolution of man, all that which is less evolved than the particular individual, and it can be also all that which is more evolved than the particular individual, provided that we have developed the ability to transmute enough of our own field so that we can properly tune in to the higher or the more spiritual elements or aspects of this part of our consciousness.

Now, developing this ability, of course, has to do, as it says in Qabalah, with purifying the subconsciousness.

And that's why in Qabalah this is called the pure or clear intelligence. because not until our own personal aspect of the subconsciousness is clear of the influences of ignorance, hatred, misinterpretations, lack of discrimination, discrimination incidentally in case you don't know it the flashing uh swords from the mouth in the book of revelation is referring to the discriminatory faculties as being fully developed because again in qabalah the hebrew letter zion which is assigned to the tarot key the lovers and connects that black circle number three to the yellow circle number six uh that is assigned to discrimination and the hebrew letter is called the sword and it is the sword of discrimination which knows how to cut away the ignorant the dross it knows how to discriminate between that which is true and that which is false and therefore the whole development is definitely shown as having to take place in yes the ninth sephirah but the symbolism in that particular Tarot key the sixth Tarot key the lovers we cannot go into that now we do this when we give classes on the Tarot so just as a little reminder we wanted you to understand the importance of discrimination and how the Qabalists try to present it in many associated fields now purifying the subconsciousness is a very interesting procedure due to the fact that inasmuch as we are immersed in the reactions that come from our own past experience, it is just like the eyes, in a way, trying to look into one's own eyes without a mirror.

And that would be a very hopeless task if that were the only way we could do it. but you see there is another way and the other way is in learning how to lift one's eyes to that Tiphareth level that is the true center the true ego and then one can truly see and work without having to uh shall we say try to interpret in an upside down manner a reflection which we do not even know is a reflection so in this aspect of our subconsciousness in this astral realm we have many things qabalah calls it the shells of the dead for instance amongst other things now what are the shells of the dead the shells of the dead are our own old thought forms our own old emotional forms. They have forms and powers. The shells of the dead are the thought forms and emotional forms of all human beings floating around on that particular vibrational level.

The shells of the dead also include the discarnate entities who are still very much earthbound, even though many of them would not know or recognize that they were. The shells of the dead, indeed, are all those things which are of the past and are not required anymore except for purposes of study in order to understand what the workings of subconsciousness are and how influences touch us and push us without us recognizing what is happening. haven't you noticed for instance if you're in the room with someone who's irritable haven't you noticed how you will start becoming irritable yourself you're picking up that part of the subconscious level I haven't you noticed if someone is afraid in your presence you'll suddenly pick up this fear if someone is feeling loving haven't you noticed how you will start to glow why Why do you think this occurs?

This is all an aspect of what occurs in larger measure and in very hidden ways all the time from many other levels.

That is why incidentally, this particular center is also assigned to the moon.

And maybe that's one of the reasons such terms have come into being in our language like, oh, he's just a lunatic. You know, Luna, moon, and also a person who isn't very practical he's kind of moony you see there there are curious developments that reach into every field even what it apparently would seem to be a field that isn't related everything is related well the point is that if our subconsciousness is continually continually receiving because it's like a radio reception. It's a station. And if it's continually receiving these various impacts, we are aware of some of these impacts as we point out to you the fact that when we are with people who love or who hate or who are irritated or who are critical, we know what happens to our own emotional reactions and our own thinking processes. it's very apparent. Well just suppose this were going on even when you're not consciously aware.

Suppose then if you feel irritable, shall we say, you are emanating not only to people that happen to be there, you're emanating it to the mass media, to the mass subconsciousness. You are therefore setting up a back-and-forth flow with a certain level and and that is the level that will guide you and if you're in trouble that's not going to be a very good guide is it and that's one of the reasons we have so many problems because we have this tendency to react with a critical feeling or with a hopeless feeling or with actual hatred or a hidden even hidden murderous feelings you know while you feel to yourself gee i wish somebody would just drop dead well haven't you perhaps sometimes said to somebody oh drop dead well maybe the subconsciousness hasn't got such a sense of humor it is very literal at times humor is for the conscious mind not for the subconscious mind because humor comes from the divine level of our consciousness not from the shells of the dead and it's the divine that sees the ludicrous and can laugh so don't ever be afraid to laugh in your deepest despair if you will learn how to laugh you the angels will reach you far more readily truly they will so then we have a persistent pattern where where we really have trained ourselves to accept guidance from the lower astral realms of our subconscious beingness.

This is the truth.

And remember, always remember, it includes discarnates as well as incarnates, because all life is basically one in its interpermeating levels. And it includes non-human entities, incidentally. and just as it mentions the seven angels and as we often ask from time to time at least do you believe in fairies and angels and if not we are so sorry for you because we do we don't just believe in them we know they exist and they are in that level and they also are a hierarchy of consciousnesses the angelic hierarchy just like their the human hierarchy of consciousness there There exists parallel and side by side this other level. And they are the actual instruments of God through which the subconscious building processes take place so that within us and within all form are these very active elementals, they are called, being guided by the angelic forces. And there again, what level of these angelic forces are we basically tuned into? To the degree that we love beauty, there's a good reason for calling that Christ consciousness, that true awareness of being the son and daughters of God, the most high.

there's a good reason for calling that level beauty that different level there well when we train ourselves to look at and see beauty and it's there it's a matter of what we look for we become receptive to the more beautiful elemental levels those that are often described as being the the Devas or or divas, different people like to pronounce it differently, of this elemental, angelic kingdom and sphere. And so we also have that level that comes and helps and aids and guides. And how often have you read in the Bible, in varying ways, he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. well my darlings he has given the angels charge of us to keep us in all our ways but we're just pointing out to you that there are dark angels as well as the light angels like everything you have your polarities you have your opposites you must have you have your levels and we will receive and have the building processes and the guiding they are in charge of that bodily aspect this isn't often realized it takes much more of the deeper esoteric training which we give in our chapter work for those who prepare themselves for it to understand these forces and learn how to direct them more effectively but when we say it's through subconsciousness that these levels and aspects of our being that is the physical aspects of our being are built what is not often known is that that subconscious level is the media of the angelic hierarchy, including from the lowest to the highest.

That is our touch with it.

And therefore, again, the necessity for the transmutation of this subconscious level in order to receive the energy levels and the building entities entities who create the complete harmonious beautiful aspects and so do you know in qabalah these seven holy churches these seven holy planets are assigned each to an archangel and then the angelic hosts under them and then the principalities under them and then the elementals under them and that means each one of our centers have that hierarchy of consciousness that hierarchy of beings which we are in contact with whether we are consciously aware of it or no and many psychics are aware of these entities and beings you know many indeed those of you who have familiarized yourself with occult literature would know this and whether they have spoken about it or written about it from one part of the world to the other where there's never been any contact geographically or historically the curious thing is you will always find the same descriptions because those who tune in and get make contact they know not that that means you're very spiritual if you happen to tune into that the elemental level it just means you're psychic and that's the thing we want to talk to you about for giving you safeguards to truly be guided by the higher levels of being, the great ones.

You see, being psychic means nothing at all in terms of spirituality because all animals are psychic.

And practically all primitives are psychic.

And why, in this evolutionary level, we should look up with awe at people who are psychic is beyond the understanding of some of us in as much as it's so easy to see that psychic abilities have nothing to do with spiritual or intellectual or emotional depth development and so on nothing whatsoever now then that doesn't mean that if a person is psychic he's just an animal or a primitive it just means that he's psychic that's all it's just like it doesn't if you have blue eyes and I have brown eyes does it make us any different from each other we just happen to have a different color eyes nice variety God loves variety look at all the colors he makes the subtleties the forms and it's very nice and then we have things like the gray eyes and green eyes and hazel eyes and black eyes and that's wonderful we don't have to get bored with only one color one color in eyes we can enjoy looking in lots of eyes and compare and it makes eyes more charming so being psychic doesn't mean a thing except that it's quite a trial and a burden to the person who's psychic although some of them don't recognize that it's a trial or a burden and then there and even worse trouble because you see until you have achieved a true contact and it doesn't have to be anything phenomenal it has it's a practice a conscious holding on you might say to the basic idea god walks me god talks me god lives me always hanging on to that holy guardian angel a true inner teacher always reaching for this until you've made that a sort of second nature if you are psychic you cannot rely on what you get on that psychic level because remember being psychic means that the veil between the conscious awareness and the subconscious awareness is very thin in other words the veil between the body the kingdom below and the astral subconscious shells of the dead level of your being is thin and in that yes it foundation level remember resides a Pandora's box in the ancient esoteric training system of the mystery schools the aspirant at a certain stage of growth is warned stoop not down to those darkly splendid worlds stoop not down for an abyss at thy feet. That's the astral subconscious levels. People in insane asylums by the way have gotten lost in Yesod.

The veil was too thin in attempting to escape the reality of physical problems which we're here to cope with in order to grow, to expand our consciousness, to expand our powers.

Those who for some reason or other have not been able to do it, have tried to escape, or have inherited perhaps due to karmic reasons a vehicle that was too sensitive to withstand certain pressures.

They escape into some of the psychiatrists will call it schizophrenia, some paranoia and some of the manic depressive ailments, and they'll give it all sorts of beautiful names. They're still lost and wandering with the shells of the dead.

They're wandering in the astral world of illusion and delusion, in that subconscious field where everything that was also still has form and motion and is a wonderful thing to investigate when a person has attained to a level that is close to being a master of a wisdom, because then more controls are there. But something that one does not play with.

It's like taking a child. You do not take a child and make a child cope with a motor, for instance, or some exercising gadget, shall we say, that requires a certain amount of strength, otherwise it'll fall and smash the child. You don't let a child play with that kind of gadget, whereas an adult can handle it with one hand. It's developed the physical ability, the muscles, as we like to say.

so that is what why if you have sometimes wondered why in some uh occult literature you read warnings of psychism this is the reason it isn't that there's anything evil in the psychic spheres it's just that there is illusion and delusion and for some not all for some there is danger and therefore that is not the level that we want that is the level we want to become to become cleared and spiritualized in our own personal sphere so that only that which we choose to let in will come in from that mass ocean and that is what our work is all about now then how to do this well first of all we want to be careful never to accept advice from psychic sources. Now, it is not that sometimes there might not be some good advice, but for every time you might get good advice from a psychic source, God knows what you're going to get. We could tell you a few stories that can make your hair stand on end, and we do from time to time in our classes anyway to give a few extra details, but that takes a longer period of time to do this, although we think perhaps we should give you at least one example here to show what can actually occur now for instance we know someone who's been very psychic all her life and with her it's been just as easy to commune with the so-called dead as with the living she's been clairvoyant and clear audience since she was born she also has uh psychically what she thinks are her great spiritual teachers and her great spiritual teachers tell her how spiritual she is and she hasn't got enough sense to know how to even come in out of the rain and her and in this uh a tremendous reliance on these psychic factors for instance she'll have somebody who might have died ten years ago or fifty years ago who was earthbound and always wanted to make a lot of money and speculate or whatnot who will come to her and say now look you invest such-and-such in this and this these and these bonds or these this and this stock and everything is going to be hunky-dory then you're going to have a lot of money in order to build this or that or the other and she'll get very excited and then she'll get all kinds of her followers this is a professional medium she'll get but she's truly psychic and she'll get many of her followers to come in and put in her life savings the the little old ladies who just have this little money put away are the ones who are usually particularly susceptible and she'll get them to invest and of course everybody loses and does she Does she lose faith in this kind of guidance?

Oh no.

They give her some lame excuse because she hasn't got the discrimination. The two-edged sword does not flash from her mouth as yet.

She just goes on from bad to worse. She's in awful shape and there are many people that have had terrible things and still she goes on. This happens a lot. lot of people who are psychic will be told to do this and not to do that and foolishly they listen this is not the way a true occultist should go through life this is not being tuned into the great ones because although it is true that occasionally someone who loves us very dearly who's on the discarnate side may through the grace of God come through to help protect us in some emergency.

Remember, this is through the Holy Guardian Angel and it will be done without hunting around in psychic levels where it is not very apt to happen very often, although it does happen occasionally. The point is that when you lean on the most high, the higher self, and you learn how to differentiate between what is subconscious conscious and what comes from the higher super conscious levels of inspiration and help that is when your guidance is sure and glorious and true and you do it by recognizing this difference as dr case gives it in the lessons between the voice and the voices and the voice and the voices do not necessarily come in hearing anything either psychically or physiologically it can come in many ways what as many ways as there are ways of being sensitive or psychic but the thing to always remember is this the voices have the tendency 999 out of a thousand times uh to praise to tell you you're a wonderful fellow or gal and you have a great mission and you're going to practically save the world. Like, for example, you've all heard of William Dudley Pelley, no doubt. Now, I don't know how many of you happen to know that William Dudley Pelley, who spent some years, as you know, in prison for organizing, was it his silver shirts? His silver shirts, a fascist group for anti-Semitic purposes and pro-Nazi purposes.

William Dudley Pelley was a very psychic individual, and with it he also had spiritual aspiration.

However, he had so little discrimination, and his subconsciousness was still so full of a need to feel superior to his fellow man.

remember this my darlings need to feel superior to somebody else this is one's real nemesis amongst other things because he had this need to feel superior because he felt that there were those who terms of people or who were bad and evil in other words he was rather paranoid as a personality personality, which doesn't mean he was insane in any matter, Hannah Ravine.

This man, though he had an extraordinary spiritual experience, also became ever more lost in acceptance of his psychic information. He was told it was his destiny to save the world. He was told that what he had to save the world from were the Jews, of course, because the Jews were out to ruin the world, you know, to gain control, a la Hitler. And he had been chosen, he'd been in training, it was his great mission, and he became fired with this savior complex, true savior. And so he organized his silver shirts and taught them how to hate the Jews, of course, also the Catholics and whatever else it was necessary to hate, but particularly the Jews a true Nazi a hate group my darlings beware beware beware always of anybody and anything which gives you hate education no matter how logical it sounds beware it does not come from the great ones it does not come from them and it will come under the guise of spirituality it will come that way almost always and if you have not got the two-edged sword you'll have to suffer and walk in a little more blood until you learn so beware it's not necessary be aware of these dangers and stop them cold wherever you are have the courage to speak up when you are in the presence of it.

You must do your part. You know, inaction in a deed of mercy is action in a deadly sin. You realize that. And if we sit in the presence of bigotry that preaches hate of any group and just stay quiet because it would be embarrassing, it is in action in a deed of mercy we have to you have to take your sides for love and growth and harmony even though you must fight evil but this is how you fight evil don't you see you fight it by being willing to recognize it and speak up well at any rate then back to William Dudley Pelley because this is a very good example and I'm not through with the story because this will will teach us, this story will teach us more than anything I could tell you about principles, I think.

So what happened?

Then finally our federal government caught up with William Dudley Pelley, and he was sent to prison as a fascist who had attempted to overthrow our American governmental institution. or was teaching this as a violent measure through his particular means he was determined that he had to be the Savior of course this is what he had been told by his very wonderful spiritual teachers well he got out of prison something like six seven years ago and do you know what he did he organized a spirit another group under religion and I don't know I forget what he calls it souls incorporated or something like that and what he does now he is still psychic and he still knows that he's right but that the enemies of darkness won out that is the evil jews in his point of mind won that round but he still has to save the world from this grave danger in in his mind, as taught by his evil, dark forces of hate.

And so he has now organized a religious group, and the great Americans come and speak through him as a psychic medium, and he has them recorded on tape, and he sells these tapes to people all over the country. and all of these great Americans, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, etc. These all come through regularly and they plead with him to spread the word, to spread the spiritual word that everybody must get together and be on guard against the Jewish menace.

now what do you think of that and you know what he won't let Theodore Roosevelt in Franklin D. Roosevelt he says has tried to come but he won't let him in because he was one of the most horrible things and he thinks he's probably part Jew somewhere there in his background anyway so he won't let him in so now he has all the great patriots of our wonderful, miraculous democracy, of our republic, coming in, okaying, and pushing the hate development. Now, you see, this is what happens when one has faith in psychic levels and has not developed discrimination. And, of course, in his mind, he is in tune with the great ones indeed.

But surely you see what he is in tune with. He's in tune with the devil incarnate himself. and all you have to do is look at this man he was on television about a few months ago uh i forget the one of our columnists who has a television show and brings on some of these queer characters occasionally and sometimes very interesting ones had him on television and this face if ever you want to see a face of evil incarnate it just breaks the heart this is that that face of what has become to William Dudley Pelly, a man who had a true spiritual illumination at one time and wrote a little booklet called Ten Minutes in Eternity, but fell for psychic levels and the psychic hates because of his own need to feel superior and better than others. you see having an illumination does not protect you from things and does not make you uh free because this is just the beginning of the great work an illumination is something that needs to fire the spirit to keep being and expressing evermore the unity of god the unity of life the the love that Jesus taught, the love that Jesus taught.

This is the thing that one has to work for, the having an experience of illumination is merely that which helps to strengthen our resolve to keep going, to transmute this subconsciousness. God has given us a vital job, a vital, vital job, and that is to transmute the area of subconsciousness that is in our keeping for us and for life and evolution.

And you do it by recognizing that no hate and no evil and no superiority complexes and no ignorances and stupidities can flourish here. You have to learn to recognize them and weed them out. And thus is your guidance ever more sure in terms of the great ones. and as you refuse to respond to these lower hate levels you will find that these great ones you won't even have to try to tune in you will be tuned into you will find that the that the great ones will be loving other people through you and believe you me it happens to me much and often I may be talking to somebody and suddenly I become aware of some angel or a very high soul who wants to bring somebody a particular bit of energy and stimulus on the side of light just suddenly pour down in and through me and to them because they have not quite yet learned how to do it and this is part of what helps to prepare them anyway you become a clear channel you know the beauty and the rapture of this kind of guidance and you know it's occurring because you find that every day your life is being more filled with these the expressions in the little things that show guidance like I remember how dr. case used to feel so pleased whenever he he found that in driving the car, he'd hit all the goes just right on a trip.

He'd say, I'm particularly well tuned in today.

And when he was hitting all the stoplights, he'd say, today I am not so well tuned in, but this is good because it makes me realize I want to see where I'm getting a little lazy with my consciousness.

And yet, if we have problems, it doesn't mean that we are not tuned in. Don't forget, there are some problems, in fact many, that are merely the part of the testing process, the putting the steel into the fire to make it strong.

And as we keep our hearts and minds lifted to this guidance from the above, as we recognize that nothing that comes that tells us we're so terrifically wonderful and have such great missions, but rather tenderly and gently points out our immaturities that need correction, sometimes not too gently, though always lovingly, this they do and I know it well as we are aware of this and train ourselves to keep aware of this we will discover that more and more the whole hierarchy of beings both from the human level which includes all these great masters of wisdom and the angelic level all these beautiful glorious angels we will become more and more aware of the fact that we are guided every moment we are loved we are we are kept whether we are weeping or whether we are laughing whether we are waking or whether we are sleeping that always there is that within which we are held loved and protected and that gives us the courage to take anything that we need to take as we continue on the path of return developing our spiritual muscles ever more strongly so please as we leave today let's try to go home with at least this one vital thought just the one it isn't necessary to be better than anybody else it is necessary to be us which is unique and no one else in the universe can begin to be like us don't you see that's why it isn't necessary to be better that in our uniqueness the vital thing is to be ever alertly aware of the need to transmute those parts in us that keep us tuned to the demoniac nonsense ignorant levels and to transmute them so that evermore we will be consciously tuned and even when we just think of it we are automatically tuned by the way remember this but we want to make it conscious and so that we will become consciously tuned to that glorious divine level through the whole step by step hierarchy that that is like a chorus, a universal cosmic chorus, like a joint dance of life with everybody being this pure note, this pure chord, this glorious pulsing something that we are all going to know directly one day and which we will know much more rapidly as we lift ourselves to that level of guidance.

remember remember just consciously lifting yourself brings it whether you're aware of it yet or not as long as you don't get it mixed with what we've just warned you about
