The Cosmic Father in Qabalah. Now, wisdom is assigned to the Cosmic Father. So that particular force, that particular area of consciousness, that sphere of activity that is called wisdom, would have to do with how we work out the ways, the means, the areas in which to get from here to there. Now, if we have plenty of wisdom, and wisdom comes from what? Experience.

If we have plenty of wisdom, we're going to work out the route to get, say, from here to Glendale, or from here to Cloud 12, or from here to Union with God. We're going to be able to work out how to get from here to there very beautifully indeed, because with wisdom we work it well. You know, I like to remind you that little saying that I always have thought is so clever, like to remind us of it rather regularly, where one man kept searching and searching for wisdom and studying and just feeling that wisdom was the only thing worthwhile.

And a friend said to him, what is all this wisdom, wisdom, wisdom? If you have the wisdom, what will you do with it?'

And the searcher said, ''Ah, but when I have the wisdom I will know what to do with it because I'll have the wisdom to know.'' And in the same way, whatever we do, whatever we think, whatever we feel, not until we have the wisdom are we able to do, to think, to feel properly. And you see, it is up to every one of us to learn how to gain this wisdom, also how to use this wisdom. Now there's the universal wisdom that becomes ever more available to us as we work at becoming one with the Father. And then there's always the wisdom that is what you might call the wisdom of humanity, gathered through eons of time, which we all can share. When we learn how to touch each other on the highest level that exists within each and every one of us, we can then share the wisdom. In Qabalah, the highest wisdom of the ages is shared.

And that is why everyone who is guided to this Western Mystery Training System is guided because something in the soul is ready to at least be exposed to this very highest wisdom.

Often it's a test because all of us can go in for very deep, very intense aspiration and be quite sincere about it. But no matter what it is that we go in for, invariably this automatically invites a certain cosmic law to come into effect. And that is the test. Because nothing can be gained without first being tested through. Even in your commercial world, you know, you have certain textiles that are manufactured. They have to be tested to make sure that they're going to function in very specific ways. You have certain foods that are sold. They have to be tested to know they're going to taste right, that they're going to do the job, otherwise no one will buy them. You always have your testing. And in evolution, the moment we have aspiration and we start on the road which has to do with searching for wisdom and being willing to attain wisdom, we automatically put into effect certain forces for ourselves which will bring about the tests of wisdom.

Actually, it is always our own wisdom or what degree of wisdom we're able to share with the higher levels that is involved in terms of tests. And when we have not yet attained to the ability to share in some of the higher wisdoms, naturally what we will notice is that we are not going via the path from here to whatever goal we've set in a very comfortable manner. We will pick perhaps roads where they have things all torn up and detours. And if you recall what I've said often, time is such a precious treasure.

It is such a miraculous treasure that we have from the most high. We live in time and space for very short ephemeral periods of time while we're within an incarnation. And one of the tests we're put through is what we do with this time it is very ephemeral indeed and it flies, flies the younger we are, the more time we think we've got the older we are, the more rapidly time starts to spin away from us so that this treasure of time is something we always have to consider now what has this got to do with wisdom? What has this got to do with the cosmic father? Everything everything because another one of the Qabalistic terms given to the Cosmic Father, Wisdom, is the sphere of the zodiac. Now the sphere of the zodiac means many things. First of all, it is showing the order of the heavens. And you know it has taken untold numbers of time for human consciousness to discover this order of the heavens. You find that all types of form are built up from the simple atom and then they, by number, you know, it says God geometrizes, by number each atom goes higher.

Everything is ordered so that everything we call form in the universe, that means the order of the heavens, is there in a very special order. All the, everything that we come across in the way of substance Substance is composed of an interaction of very ordered types of atoms held in a very ordered manner, a very ordered area. In the same way, the entire picture of the universe is actually an ordered universe, and we, remember, are not outside of it. We are inside of this universe, therefore we are part of this order. In the entire Bible, when heavens, the word mentioned, people have made the great mistake of thinking that that means it's something beyond the manifested universe. Now this is a great error because although it is true that there is consciousness and beingness that vibrates on a level that is beyond what we can be aware of and what we call the manifested universe, it is also true that this very beyondness is in the manifested universe as well as beyond it.

One of the best examples that we can give as an analogy is to point out that when we use our eyes to see anything, for example we have learned, due to the experiments made that what we are seeing is a fractional portion of a very vast vibration but we are able to be aware of only this very fractional portion which vibrates at a certain vibratory rate or a certain speed, and yet that very thing we're seeing is a continuing line or wave of vibration, so that it continues beyond hearing. If you take it in sound, it's very obvious also, because we hear only within a certain range of decibels, they call it, which means within a certain range of vibrations. Vibrations, yet the fact that we're hearing within this range doesn't mean that the vibrations aren't still existing beyond in both directions, both slower and faster.

One good example is in realizing that radio waves are going on all the time. For instance, programs are being transmitted all the time and these radio waves go through us. And we're absolutely unaware of the programs. Some of them are horrible, most of them are horrible, the programs that we're sending out from our broadcasting stations on this planet, in this manifestation, it's mainly because we're learning how to use various extension of forces within the manifest. So they're pretty horrible, we will admit. Nevertheless, you have to practice to become perfect and let's call it the practice of clumsy infants.

But the point is these radio waves are right here now going through us when you have the proper instrument like a radio you turn it on and you put it on the proper vibration it brings it in then you can experience the program TV or radio same thing the energies are here and actually they go all the way through us well in the same way that which is beyond the manifest is also is here but the manifest is a part of the unmanifest and the manifest isn't outside of it now the reason we get into so much trouble and feel ourselves so isolated from other human beings, from life even from God is because we keep thinking of ourselves as being something outside instead of something inside and because of this we don't realize that the order of the heavens is something that we participate in. Our sun and our planets is inside of a certain portion of the galaxy and the galaxy is inside of the all space, which is inside of the divine.

All of it is a certain way that we experience the divine movement of consciousness. And so the sphere of the activity of the zodiac, when we think of it in terms of the cosmic father, is actually in essence saying to us, this terminology is saying to us, that all of the energies, all of the radiations within the entire universe are specialized ways in which the eternal life force of the divine are working.

These radiations exist in all kinds of speeds on the same line, not separated from each other, They're not any more than the top of an iceberg is separated from its larger area that goes down into the ocean. So all we're experiencing is a portion of something that's total.

And when we learn to understand this, we lose this sense of separateness. We prepare ourselves then to be more able to receive the wisdom of the ages, stages, which in part is also the experience of humanity from the past. You know, we've been talking about that whole pillar of the Tree of Life and the classwork being related to the past. Now, all wisdom has to come from experience.

And in Qabalah it is said, the divine mind or the divine consciousness, when it sets up its intention, which is the beginning of the power or the beginning of the whirlings, and I remind you that everything in the universe whirls, including electrons around the nucleus of an atom.

When these energies and these movements are set into motion, this intention, the wisdom aspect of the Divine Father has to do with deciding in what manner the goal shall be developed. And also not only in what manner the goal shall be developed but in what manner it will have to be developed in order to remain within the framework of the universal law because whatever we may or may not know about the divine mind, this is certain. The divine mind sets up rules, it follows its own rules.

After all, the divine mind doesn't do what some of us do. You decide to play some solitaire and it isn't coming out, so we cheat.

And after all, how much satisfaction do we get from the cheating? You know, we don't really get satisfied at all. Only when we follow the rule do we accomplish, do we win the game, really win it. Now then, this life force is actually experienced in one special way as, say, the radiations. It's the light that we see as well as radiation that's beyond our ability to see with our physical eyes but we're able to experience this radiation with our spiritual awareness or spiritual sensorium and it isn't any different than light it's a different vibratory level than the light we see it's a continuation in other words, if you would take a line let's take a line that is just draw a line of light that is two feet long. And let's say that our consciousness is able to be aware of one-tenth of an inch of this line of light, somewhere a third from the beginning of it.

Now, if we decide that that is all the reality there is, we're deluded, aren't we? Now, this is what we do. We try to judge things from that point of view, when we try to judge things from the manifested level, because you might call the manifested universe like one-tenth of an inch of the energies, and yet they're the rest of them that we're not aware of, mainly because our consciousness isn't able to assimilate, to register the vibrations that are at that speed.

Now, developing the ability to register the vibrations at that speed has to do with developing the ability to be aware on planes that are beyond the manifest. And we develop this ability in regular steps. That's why our whole training system takes you from step to step in this staggering manner, guiding from, you might call it, street to street and route to route to get from here to there. And incidentally, remember, in the most beautiful manner possible when we follow the route that the wise ones have taken, those who've gone before us, the masters, who guide us and who are only waiting for us to be willing to go. They don't drag us, you see. We have to go on our own. And we have to be willing to take off our blinkers. You know, some of us figure, all right, I'll go, but I'll put on blinkers or blinders.

And we do all kinds of very extraordinary things. However, when we bear in mind that this light force isn't just light force, it is also life force, we have something that needs real meditation here. What is life, your life and my life, which is the divine life? Think for a moment, what is the difference between what is called mineral form and living form?

What is the difference? The truth is it's only in the way it's organized. Again, you have your, what, your order. There are your laws that are set up. It's the difference in the way points or spots of atoms are organized.

That's the only difference between what we call non-life and life. And yet, in occultism, we don't say there's any difference at all because there isn't. In Qabalah we say the mineral life is just as much divine life except it's latent on the manifested plane that we are able to be aware of and yet if you will think of a being as being an entire line or ray of light let's say the eye mineral might be the first fractional one thousandth of an inch portion of that line say say, one-fifth of the way up from the beginning of that line of light, and that if you take your consciousness, say, you're another line of light coming, or a ray of light coming from a central sun, say, I, human being, you're, say, two-thirds of the way up on that line of light, and you're able to participate in your awareness in two inches of that light instead of a thousandth of an inch.

The only difference between mineral life and, you might say, human life, is in the degree of the energy force that we are able to hold in a special organization.

And that's why those of us who at times at least can have what we call supersensory perception under certain conditions, we see this electromagnetic field that's around. Those who see a portion of it call it the aura, but that's just a very small portion of the electromagnetic field that we hold. And this electromagnetic field is held by consciousness. Consciousness. And consciousness is not separate from the light that pours from the stars, from the atom, from what we call electricity. It is just that what we call the light from the stars, what we call electricity, is a fractional aspect of the total energy substance that there is. And it is in the way consciousness holds the organization of its image that gives what we call the non-living life or the living life, and yet all of it is living from the point of view of that which can see and sense the entire, the divine. Now then, when wisdom, chokmah, is called the life force then, remember, and it's also called the sphere of the zodiac, it is saying in essence that the very energy that we call light force, radiation that streams through the entire universe.

This same energy is also the livingness of the universal being and it is therefore your livingness and my livingness. It is all livingness. So that the livingness beingness of ourselves is part of what, again, we go back to the heavenly order. Therefore, again, I remind you, when the Bible talks about the heavenly order, It is not separating one thing from another, because bear in mind it's the Qabalists who have written these things. Prophets were trained Qabalists. And whatever else we have historically, we also have the trained Qabalists who have given us these extraordinary teachings. Teachings. Now the life power then, which also can be seen in other ways that it expresses itself or other vibratory rates that we call energy. This incidentally entire universal energy, this entire universal livingness is here now, available to us and as we train ourselves to say, I am an aspect of this universal life power. I am a part of the living energy.

I am an expression of this light which both streams through me as well as is in an organized form within which I am able to express some very specialized ways of being, we can also start to see or to start to recognize that being the begotten of God, being begotten by the Father, in essence means that this entirely fantastic radiation that is of the the Father is also of us and that we have the ability and capacity to control that portion of the universal vital energies which streams in and through us. We have the ability to control it and therefore the basic tenet that we have to come to grips with in Qabalah is the fact that we are at all times directing the universal energy, the life force of God. We are at all times directing it, except that when we are not yet spiritual aspirants, we do very foolish things with it indeed.

We permit our minds, our consciousness to take this energy and hold images of lack, lack of sorrow, of hate, of jealousy, of inferiority, of hurt, of hostility.

And inasmuch as we do this, since all the power that ever was or will be is here now, and we're learning how to direct universal energies – they are universal and there's There is no end to the amount that we can handle, only depending on how we set our own intentions and how much wisdom we are able to attune ourselves to through the Divine Father. What we have to come to realize then is that it is not only enough to intend something, but within the intention we have to be ready and willing to look into the wisdom aspect of our being to get it as much related to the divine wisdom, to the wisdom of the Father as we can, so that we can more and more be able to say, with that level of consciousness that Jesus of Nazareth attained, we can be able to say that not only am I in union with the Father, but all that the Father hath is mine.

Do you know that all that the Father hath is yours right now, my darlings? All.

Even the sorrow, the disappointment, the disillusionment, isn't it from the rich, streaming, universal, vital life energy that is there that we have taken unto ourselves?

Isn't it from that that we have formed images which have brought about the sorrows? The disappointments.

We have it. It isn't even that we have to get it. What we have to get is the recognition, the realization of what we've been doing with it. This is the wisdom that we should work for so that we will more and more effectively make our roots, draw our paths so that we will be able to attain our various goals that we have set in ways of beauty, in other words, in ways of the divine love. My darlings, there's nothing that we can set for ourselves in the way of a goal that if it involves hurting others, if it involves breaking the golden rule, if it involves going against our conscience, if it involves going against true moral precepts, if it involves any of these things believe me my darlings it is not the goal that will bring us the fulfillment there are some who try to say the end justifies the means this is not and cannot be true because there is no difference between means and ends in the Qabalistic teaching that is something to bear in mind the ways and methods that we lay out for ourselves actually have to do with participating in the wisdom of the Father.

And when we do this, that's when we have the bread, the bread of life, because then we're really participating in the universal nourishment, the true universal nourishment.

The cosmic father in occultism, then, the cosmic father in the Qabalistic aspect of occultism, has to do with the teaching that your father and my father is the divine father, no matter what our physical father is. Every physical father is, after all, a particularized expression of the only father that there is, that's the one and the only, blessed be he. And this one, this only is outpouring continuously a self-importation it is a compulsion as a matter of fact you can say, oh oh, how could God be under a compulsion the divine wisdom is under the compulsion of its own love because love is the compulsion to share automatically and the sharing, the divine consciousness has set up a goal rules and regulations for its self-expression and manifestation and it follows these rules and regulations in the same way that we're compelled to follow the rules of solitaire without cheating if we're going to have the satisfaction of the game and the divine consciousness the divine one has set up rules and regulations the divine love gives of self within certain laid out, organized means in order for us to become conscious participators as the begotten of the Most High.

My darlings then, go to a mirror. Look into the mirror.

When you look into the mirror, say to yourself, I am looking at the face of the divine life made manifest here and now in me.

Look in the mirror and say to yourself, I am the miracle, the begotten of the divine livingness of the Father.

Look into the face of humanity, my beloved ones, and say to yourself, I am looking into the face of God made manifest in these myriad ways.

The Divine Father's actual beingness, the light.

We sign ourselves sister and brother in LVX, which is light. We are organized forms made out of light. You are the divine light and I am the divine light made manifest to experience God in these myriad ways this is the goal for us to know it and be it and share it in every way shape and form you are the divine made manifest and nothing can ever hurt you to the degree you think it can if you only remember this you are the divine manifest manifest my beloved ones and there is no enemy outside there is no one who can ever hurt you there is no one who can ever injure you anything and everything that happens to you is merely an opportunity to remind yourself I am the divine manifest and I will respond to this experience in the wisdom that comes to me from knowing that I am in union with the Father and I express the power of the Father now and forevermore.
