The Qabalistic Christus, that's what we will be discussing this morning. Now, you have heard us say often enough that the word Christ comes from the Hebrew Christus.

I mean the Greek Christus, which is the Hebrew Mashiach, and means Redeemer or Savior. However, we never did discuss with you the ideas and meanings related to Jesus, and actually we have to bring them together in order to try to show what the true meaning of the Christus is for us. Because remember always, the whole story of Jesus the Christ has come down to us through drew the Old Testament into the New Testament. It was prophesied, for instance, in Isaiah, when Isaiah said, and there shall come one who will be called a man of sorrows, and he will suffer for our sins, that we might be redeemed. I am paraphrasing Isaiah, of course, because I haven't memorized the words, but you can look it up if you wish. It might be a good idea. You will be astonished at how much was foreshadowed from the Qabalists from one era or group of expectations into the next cycle, shall we say, of expression.

Now, even the name, of course, was foreshadowed.

And remember, Remember, before Jesus was born in Matthew, we are told that the angel appeared unto Mary and told Mary that the Holy Ghost would be descending upon her and that she will give birth to a son whose name shall be called Emmanuel.

And yet, he was called Jesus. Well, when you know Qabalah, you know exactly what was said, of course. Emmanuel means God is with us. God is with us. Now, what does Jesus mean? Jesus is the Greek, and therefore has become the English, through the Greek transliteration, of the Hebrew Joshua, also known as Yehoshua in Hebrew, for Hebrew pronunciation and that means Jehovah is with us so you see the meaning is really identical God is with us Jehovah is with us we know that Jehovah kabbalistically is that which was is and will be and is referred to over and over again as the father, the Qabalistic father, of whom Jesus spoke much and often. So we have these elements to go back to, that is, the idea of the meanings of the names. And remember, a true understanding of the Bible, of all the teachings of the Bible that do not actually relate to history in themselves, a true understanding is completely dependent dependent on Qabalah in as much as it was Qabalists who happened to write about it.

It were the Qabalists who were the esoteric teachers of that time, the prophets of that time. And indeed, it was Jesus himself who was trained in the Qabalistic disciplines in the school of the Essenes, as it was known at that time, and was a little different than it's been known, that has been come to understand, or the way we have come to understand it at this point, and there were different groups of the Essenes. Jesus was with the most esoteric and the most enlightened group of the Essenes that we know of, and that is one of the direct descendants of the whole Qabalistic teaching-training initiatory system. Them. But let's examine first what the further, shall we say, claims have been, and how well they have been borne out, and exactly how we perhaps have misinterpreted them. Now in Matthew, remember the genealogy of Jesus is given. And he takes Jesus back to David and indeed calls Jesus the seed of David and mentions that so it was prophesied as of old. And incidentally, in Isaiah, this is prophesied that there shall come one, a man of sorrows, who shall be the seed of David.

That is quite correct so we have that part now later I think it is st. Luke takes the genealogy even further he goes back to Seth and Missus Allah and I forget who else right on to Adam and claims the genealogy of Jesus as having the direct descent to Adam himself now of course I'm sure those of us who've been gathering together here week by week surely realized by now that luke was completely correct in taking the genealogy back that far because adam at that time was known to be and certainly by the esoteric qabalists more than known to be that part of the the living God, which is the Son of God, generic humanity.

Therefore, to take the genealogy of Jesus back to Adam is completely accurate.

Certainly, Jesus was a member of humanity, and there are those who would try to tell us he was not a member of humanity. And if Jesus was not a member of humanity, I think we should all just fold up our little games or lock up our suitcases and just give up right now because what kind of help could we hope to receive what kind of inspiration could we hope to receive in terms of our very unevolved and undeveloped personalities if we figured we had to follow one who was not human our hearts would say all right Jesus could do this and Jesus could do that but I can't after all he was at least the Son of God so he had that power the division the dividing away of the Christus and Jesus an incarnation of the Christus dividing this away from us as has been done by most most of Orthodoxy is indeed one of the greatest tragedies we would say that has hit the religious development of the world, or at least the western part of the world, in the last 2,000 years.

But those of us who even think a little bit must realize that Jesus consistently called himself the son of man as well as the son of God. And when he called himself the son of man, he was calling himself the son of Adam, Remember, Adam means man.

And he was calling himself the Son of God because he knew who and what he was, knowing that Adam, and therefore you and you and you and I, are the sons of God. And remember, Jesus also said, your father is my father, or I think he put it more, my father is your father and my brother is your brother. Somewhere in the Bible, in the New Testament, you will find that. So if Jesus was the Son of Man and if Jesus was the Son of God and if Jesus' father was your father and if Jesus' brother was your brother, what was true then is true now. We are therefore not not talking about anything that is different or separate from you. We are talking about an eternal truth which we must come to recognize in order to be able to participate in the true meaning of the Qabalistic Christus, which is the real meaning of Jesus the Christ, who came to redeem us from our sins, they say. Now, I will frankly confess to you that there was a time in my very early 20s when I became about as angry as a human being is likely to get at what I thought was the barbaric, the utterly barbaric idea of some human being coming to suffer to be crucified for the sins of others so that all other people had to do was just look up and with their heart and say, oh I'm so sorry dear God I believe in thy son Jesus Christ and forgive me and therefore everything was going to be hunky-dory. I thought the world was insane and certainly that an idea like that was preposterously barbaric. But the reason I thought this was because I was looking upon it in the literal sense of the word. In other words, because of the way most Orthodox people saw this whole picture and their interpretation, incidentally did strike me as utterly barbaric and even today we must after all agree that literal interpretations of certain symbolic truths can lead us astray and lead our hearts astray in the most fantastic manner in other words it can lead us away from truth and away from reality and into ignorance and remember always that all the Qabalistic terms when they are meditated upon help you to come to this conclusion that sin is ignorance therefore anything that promotes ignorance promotes sin and anything that promotes true perception true knowledge true insight promotes the opposite of of whatever we mean by sin.

But let's analyze together a little more some of the ideas that are involved with the spiritual ideas of the Christus as they relate to us, and just what Jesus the Christ could and should mean to us, not only in terms of something that may have happened 2,000 years ago, but something that should be a living reality to us today.

Now this, at least I can say, I not only believe but feel I know with my complete heart and soul.

And that is that there did occur something that was extraordinary, miraculous, something that had never occurred before in the history of this life cycle. This life cycle of Adam or generic humanity that some 2,000 years ago the evolutionary level of humanity of Adam had reached a point where it was possible for a personality for a personality to incarnate, who had so completely achieved the transmutations of all the lower aspects of the self that he became an utterly and completely transformed being. He became something completely different than man, yet he never separated himself from man because he was born of man as a son of man and that this occurrence was the birth of what we call Jesus which means Jehovah is with us now we celebrate this occurrence the birth of the Christ and we have heard often and especially in many of the orthodox schools of thought, we are told that this Jesus is the Lord and we should worship the Lord. Nevertheless, wasn't it Jesus himself who said, call no man good but the Father? And wasn't it Jesus himself, himself in person who very much more than once entreated us to give everything over to the Father, who himself gave credit to the Father for all things, who said the Father worketh and heretofore I work.

And yet here is the interesting thing about it.

Had these people who originally translated the occurrences of that day been kabbalistically trained, they would have given us the meaning, they would have given us an inspiration that would have meant so extraordinarily much to the suffering, weeping, and groping offspring of Adam down through all those years and yet they did not translate it in its completely correct aspects because they didn't have the alphabet they didn't have the language in actuality don't you see Qabalah has taught how many years before Christ we can't we don't even know because it goes back before recorded history as far as we've been able to ascertain but it has been taught and it was this teaching was carried through the various prophets that the cosmic father that is the universal father certainly is the creator of all or yakita the one self of which the father is one aspect and the cosmic mother or the divine soul is another aspect, but that through this eternal conjunction or union or love that exists in the universal one, on a lower arc they begat what is called Adam and often has been called the Logos or the Word. And that on the Tree of Life, those of you who have come to my Thursday evening classes or those of you who have reached some of these points in your lessons, you all know that this is a sign to what is called Tiphareth or beauty, the central part of the Tree of Life. This is what is called Adam, the Messiah, the Redeemer, the Son of God, and the Sun, S-U-N incidentally, of this particular part of the heavens in which we live and move and have our being. You see, in actuality the Christ what is it then the Christ is really the living conscious spirit of God on the lower arc of individualized self-comprehension self-knowledge and it is a vast spirit. It is a spirit that covers this entire solar system. As far as we're concerned, we don't have to hunt in other places or search for whatever it is we mean by the Universal God, because the Universal God is the one and only Father and the creator of all. Nevertheless, just as you have heard us explain to you so so often, all consciousness is a hierarchy. And we reach to the heart of God through this hierarchy.

But for our purposes, we could say that Christ is our Lord, don't you see? If, in the saying of this, we recognize that this is the individualized expression of God on the arc or evolutionary level in which we participate. But then we will have to go a step further. The Christ, we will say then, is definitely the Son of God, a vast spirit begotten of the Universal One, of the love of the Universal One. And then who or what are are we? We are the Christ. This is what we will have to remember. Jesus was saying at all times, he became completely and consciously one with that vast spirit which knew itself to be one with the Father at all times and knows itself to be one with the Father at all times. What is the difference between you and me and Jesus Jesus let us say was 35 years old and we are two years old I think that's a fairly kind way to put it and we want to feel kind during this season because we want to understand exactly what is meant by the Christus, by the crucifixion, by dying for our sins.

You see, my darlings, you are so enveloped in your separate personalities at this time, you are so immersed in the illusion of being other than each other, and illusion it is, that you think that in order to survive, you have to be in competition with everybody else whether it's mental or emotional or spiritual or material that is in terms of commerce and so on or prestige wise or with power you think you need to be in competition with each other because you're under this tremendous delusion you think that you're going it along and you think that your neighbor or your enemy or your friend has another kind of consciousness and is another being well you see this is the great mystery that has been talked about so much and that has never been understood he who is one in christ Christ does become one with all beings.

He who is one in Christ. Because in the Christ consciousness, which incidentally is your higher self, and is the only real self you've got, in that consciousness, you will know.

You will know that you are one. And when you know it, there will be one point or period of knowing where your heart will be torn to shreds.

As was Jesus. And how else can it be? Because your mind may rest, for instance, on a friend, and if that friend is weeping, it will be happening to you. You won't be able to tell the difference. You won't even know it's your friend. You'll think it's you.

That's one of the first things that happens. And if your enemy is thinking hate and sending darts at you you may not know it's your enemy it will be happening in your heart you will feel hate because somebody is thinking hate to you and you will feel revenge if somebody else is thinking revenge to you that is what will happen until you know who and what you are and that is what happens to you every day and you do not know it you do not know that there's no such thing as wanting as avoiding the agony and the tear and the pain of your enemies shall we say come up there's no such thing because whatever you are attached to in your mind and in your heart and in your consciousness you will find it happens in you whether that attachment is through love or through hate. And this I can say to you, my darlings and my brothers, my sisters, my fratres and sorores, as we say it in Latin for special fraternal purposes, this I can say to you. I can bear witness personally to the fact that there is no emotion that you can feel that under the proper conditions I will not also be experiencing be it love or hate or any of the elements I bear witness to this because I know I mean I don't know from the kind of knowing that may that comes from reading a book I know it from the kind of knowing that you can never unknow that is why you have heard it said so often that what happens to your fellow brother happens to you you have heard often often enough the quotation from Jesus the one where he said I think I wrote a note made a little note on it to make sure that I wouldn't overlook it because I think that is comes at the heart of the true meaning of christus for us to help us wake up to who and what we are and work with the love as jesus knew how to work with it he said come ye blessed of my father inherit the kingdom prepare oh inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world for I was hungered and he fed me I was thirsty and he gave me to drink I was a stranger and he took me in I was naked and he clothed me I was in prison and he came unto me and he said and even as he have done it unto the least of these my brethren he have done it unto me you know I want to tell you something this is a personal confidence that I am sharing with you I have had times in my life where suddenly I received the psychic impact it's a psychic thing it is a little more than a psychic thing it is an awareness of an interpermeating substance you've probably read about this interpermeating substance in many of the lessons I happen to be aware of it just like we are usually aware of things solid of its flow and interflow it is nothing tremendous that has to do with my development I just happen to have that type of organism and it was essential for our work that I have that type of organism but here is the thing I want to tell you so that you'll know it isn't just a dream that we're talking about it isn't just an ideal it's real what I want to tell you is it's real that is the impact that the thinking and feeling of others has on us and we on them I have had times when shooting through my heart has come a substance of such anguish that how I I have survived it or do when it still comes at times as a miracle.

That is how much beyond and extraordinarily more intense it is than that which we can feel on our usual plane of consciousness. And I have discovered from time to time where some of these emotions have come from. And me, in me they have happened and happen. Where somebody is feeling say critical and after all we're all imperfect personalities and so we're all going to receive our share of criticalness you understand it has come lashing through my heart as though I was being torn apart and I haven't known where or what but always sooner or later the higher soul brings me the information it teaches me and helps me to understand and I withstand but why do I withstand this because I like you although you don't realize it perhaps as much as I do at the moment maybe some of you realize it more than I do but you see I like you am christ crucified and I like you am helping to lift the sorrows and sins of the world by my sacrifice and you are doing the same thing you are doing the same thing and I have felt other times permeations of love substance through me so that I wondered how I didn't float off into cloud number 76 and three quarters so rapturous and so ecstatic and that's when certain people are loving me extra hard and incidentally that I approve of and I invite it at all times and many other things on this level but you see the point I'm making is this always these experiences have come and perception into the principles of consciousness make us realize when they come they come as there's something happening in us suppose you feel a hate for me god forbid it would be very foolish of you to do it because you'd be hurting yourself and besides I prefer the love substance but nevertheless suppose you should feel a hate for me at the moment you know these things come and go often they don't stay uh I would feel something in me as happening in me not as happening from something else and the same with you you are you do not realize how often you have picked up in your own hearts from the mass mind the tearing apart the criticalness the hating the vengefulness the separative feelings, the insecurities, the fears. You don't know how often you've picked it up from the others and there it was in your soul. But you as occult aspirants, what have you done? Well, if you were on your toes, which I know you're not all the time because how can't we be, but we try, don't we? If you were on your toes, you took that fear, that criticism, that hatred, that hostility and you lifted it up and you gave it to God and you tried to control its expression and you know what you did when you did that?

You were helping to redeem the world.

You are Christ redeeming the world just as much as Jesus was. The miracle in relation to Jesus is that he was the very first who managed to make the way You know, if you're thrashing your way through a thick jungle with quicksands and wild animals and dangers, imagine the greatness of the one where there's nothing there to show the way, who managed to get that first footpath, to get the first brambles out of the way for us.

For us. And yet it was also for himself. Because nothing can happen to you that doesn't happen to me and nothing can happen to me that doesn't happen to you and if you're unaware of it it's only because you're unaware it isn't that this is the truth as I told you I can bear witness from a depth of my own knowing because of that particular kind of perception I can bear witness to the fact that to want somebody else for instance to pay up their bitter karma in other words to want them to suffer for something they've done thinking that how else will they learn I am one who can bear witness to the fact that you too will suffer when that enemy suffers and especially in as much as this is what you wanted it because it cannot happen to another in as much as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me and yet this would be a terrible thing if this is all we could lean on but remember we are promised salvation and we've got to understand just what is meant by salvation Christ said come unto me all ye who labor under heavy laden and I will give you rest take my yoke upon you and learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart may I repeat that for I am meek and lowly of heart you see my darlings you can be nothing except meek and lowly of heart when you have been able to experience in your own soul your brothers hates and loves and joys and sorrows and you can be nothing but meek and lowly of heart when you have found these energies washing and tearing you can be nothing but meek and lowly of heart when you struggle and fight to keep your head above water and you recognize that I of myself can do nothing you can be nothing but meek and lowly of heart when you realize that you will never overcome the tendency to befoul the air with your mouths if you just fight it out alone you're going to have to call on the true meaning of the Christus the Christ Spirit and you're going to have to learn that in as much as you alone can do nothing you as a member of the body of Christ have it in you to do all things to not only redeem yourself because you can't just redeem yourself redeem you can redeem yourself when your heart loves the world enough to want to love it into into its true nature. Yes. Christ's yoke is easy. It's very easy. All it means is that we have to start recognizing that in every way, in all our problems, in all our sorrows, and in all our joys we reach to that higher self that part of us which is one with christ and we ask for the grace of god we ask for the grace of christ to pour into us to cleanse us to baptize us to take charge of this personality and as we keep inviting that higher self and your lessons that you get at home work with you on that and all our techniques together here help you to accomplish that more and more if you will only continue with it religiously long enough as you keep doing that you'll find that christ does redeem you and that you cannot redeem yourself at all how often have you tried to overcome a certain emotion or habit of feeling and thought you had done it and then aha comes the day all of a sudden you find out you've reacted even worse than you did before sometimes it takes years I know many of you who have gone through that experience how often have we said ah I know I'll never fall for that trap again or that feeling or that emotion and how quickly was the fall thereof how quickly well it makes us meek and lowly of spirit which is good it gives us more of the Christ into our hearts until we learn to reach and reach with the universal spirit to reach and reach for the grace of God to flow into us to pour through us so that we can be the eyes and ears and mouths of God, so that our hearts are a continuous flowing fountain.

And that flowing fountain is the fountain of Christ, not separate from you.

You are redeemed by the Christus, but perhaps not in the same way that you thought before we started this talk. On our Christmas talk we will go into the full the Qabalistic meanings of Christmas a little more fully and show you a little more clearly how absolutely glorious and and wondrous is the knowledge that unto us the Sun was born unto us God gave his only begotten son and to know that when you look into each other's eyes you are looking into the eyes of the only begotten son and when you look into my eyes you are looking into the eyes of God's only begotten son and when you look into the eyes of your enemy as well as your friend try to remember that this is Christ here now even though it has not yet come into its awakening or into its expression try to remember that everything that lives is a part of view try to remember there's a real substance flows and permeates between us all all the time all the time that you're not alone in your thought in your hope in your dream in your despair in your illumination and for every human being who achieves any illumination please know that that is for you and every human being who has achieved the christ consciousness to whatever degree since christ has been doing it for you and every bit of your aspiration incidentally is for the rest of us remember this through this christmas season try to promote the real meaning of peace on earth good will towards men by thinking of the wondrousness of the fact that because Christ is you are eternally secure redeemed even though in time and space it may be another incarnation or two or three and who knows maybe to an extraordinary degree it may be this one peace on earth good will towards men rejoice that the Christ is with you, that the Word not only was made flesh but is flesh and dwells among you. And look for the signs wherever you go.

That's just a little bit, a fraction of the meaning of the Qabalistic Christus.
