Interpretation of Christus.

Two Sundays ago, we spoke to you about the Qabalistic Christus.

And this morning we're going to cover a little of that ground again in another way, because as you know, we have found, and certainly I'm sure we all recognize the fact that certain spiritual truths, if they are to have any meaning for us have to be reiterated over and over again yet we have to use devices because if we reiterate it in the same way our minds get tired we become bored and we'll go bowling or something similar so what we need to do is keep going round and round the circle always always approaching the center from another point of view, showing the scenery in another way, showing it, for instance, from the valley, from a low hill, from a higher hill, and from a star, if possible. This way, little by little, just like the drop keeps wearing away the rock, something starts happening in our consciousness.

Instead of merely an intellectual perception, perception, little by little, an inner perception, a true knowingness, that which comes from the soul, from the spirit. This is what develops. And so if we cover a few of the points this morning that we covered two weeks ago, remember it will not be in the same way. It will help to heighten that which we had two weeks ago, and those who were not here will be receiving the same message in another way. Let's then analyze the idea of Christ kabbalistically. First of all we remind you that the Bible, Old and New Testament, on the whole, aside from its historical sequences, that which has the spiritual significance was written by the prophets who were those who were trained in the hidden wisdom of Israel known as Qabalah. Therefore any true comprehension of the Bible absolutely requires a knowledge of Qabalah. However Qabalah is a very difficult type of study because it includes technical aspects. It includes a knowledge of the Hebrew Hebrew letters, of the numbers assigned to the letters, of the addition of these numbers in order to get what are considered the code words, that is the hidden meaning, which is kept, incidentally, at all times.

And that is why, no matter how often, cultures and generations may come and go who misinterpret interpret certain spiritual truths, when you have a basic symbol that is in alignment with the true archetypal unconscious, as Jung called it, or as we like to call it, the actual mass mind consciousness, that is, that part of us which is at one at all times with the universal mental mental mentation when we have a symbol of that kind and a law of consciousness we can always recover the truth no matter how often it has been lost and this is the reason incidentally that builders of the adytum utilizes these age-old symbols and continues in the methods of Qabalah for teaching the spiritual attainment, the way of illumination, because it is a way that has been with us from way before history, as a matter of fact, since originally the Qabalah was taught only orally and in the mystery schools. I want to interrupt my talk a minute to ask Emery would you please turn on the blower to get some of this incense blown away I like to look into the eyes of my darlings and my brethren and the smokiness interferes while I speak this is how I contact your spirit and can talk to you from my heart rather than from the intellectual level though that is included of course and I think that it'll be easier to breathe perhaps if we haven't got quite such a heavy that wasn't the spirit it was just the air blowing so it could have been you You have to have at least a crack of a window open for this to work, Emery.

That's an evaporative cooler. This will help wake you up in interruption if I talk so long. I hope you don't mind it. It's better to be comfortable than to keep going blindly.

That takes two minutes for the air to change once you have the window open a crack and have the cooler going all right now we don't want to freeze you out now thank you emery if you would shut off the blower is that better now we're all happier we'll continue Goodwill towards men. You see we're practicing it.

Right, so we will continue with our talk. We therefore have to realize that the methods of illumination which are taught must never be mixed up with the actual experience of the illumination itself. This is what has happened to so many schools of thought. And of course the most tragic thing that has occurred in terms of Christmas, in terms of the ideas of Christ, is that because the human mind is so limited in its ability to see, to understand. It has taken a literal interpretation of a vast and cosmic principle and made it something utterly other than it was meant to be by those who first gave us this spiritual gem and also by he who is said to have lived this principle, that is, Jesus the Christ. So we will analyze Kabbalistically what the Christmas season or the idea of the birth of Christ and therefore the life of Christ actually would mean from the source it came from rather from the way modern literal interpretations have come about. Remember now in the translations of the Bible. What we have is that inasmuch as the majority of the translators did not really know the Hebrew or Aramaic languages in which these original writings came, and this includes, of course, both the Old and the New Testament, though in the New Testament we also have original Greek as well as Aramaic and Hebrew which are involved because the translators were not familiar with the actual meaning of the number ideas that are involved as well as the symbolical meanings which were known incidentally by all who studied Qabalah back in the centuries even just six and seven centuries ago. But those who did the translating were already completely conditioned by the powers of the Church of the time, along with not having the basic knowledge that is concerned with the language. Therefore we have had literal translations which were not meant as such, and therefore most, shall shall we say, Christians in the world, though they have a partial truth, have not known how to live it, nor have they known how to extend it into the full truth.

Are you still being bothered by the...

I'm afraid we'll have to have the blower again. And do you know what I think we'd better do with that incense burner? Let's just put it outside the door until I'm through with my talk, until we need it for our little healing ritual so that it doesn't uh because it's burning rather strongly it'll absorb the prana of the universe and make it that much more potent thank you just let it uh I'll just let you uh use your judgment emery let it blow for a couple of minutes then as soon as you see the air looks a little clear turn it off or there or we'll freeze our brethren and then they won't want to come back to bask in the warmth of my love which wouldn't be nice. All right now then, the Hebrew word Mashiach can be translated into the Greek Christus, which has become Christ. Also another translation, and we're giving you the exact translation of Mashiach is Savior or Redeemer. Now the point is that in the ancient text, and this is very important for us to understand what the Spirit of Christ is to mean to us, and for us to be able to go out and use the whole idea of Christmas, not just at Christmas, but at all times. We must realize that the entire teaching of the ideas of Christ or the Savior or the Redeemer tied up with the group who were receiving these, shall we say, illuminations or inspirations because of the spiritual disciplines of the esoteric wisdom of Israel, which we call the Qabalah, that these people were very careful to use a group of words all signifying the same thing and having their relationships. Only those who get as far in our work where they're given the actual use of gematria, which is not very easy and yet it's learnable, come to see how Now, completely, the ideas of Christ have been lost, unless you go to the source material.

Therefore, let's consider that from this original text, there were several names given to one point on the Tree of Life. And remember, the Tree of Life is that synthetic glyph that has been utilized for the Qabalistic meditation limitations in order to train the consciousness in the relationship between all things that live and between ourselves and The Creator or the Lord of life or whatever we choose to call that which is responsible for consciousness or beingness Therefore these group of names all adding to the same letter all Assigned to the same place on the tree of life, which is an ad the emanation of God have this to do with each other. The first term or name is given them as Adam. You've heard this before but we want to tie it in together in order to understand the spirit of Christmas, Adam. Now you know how Adam has been translated into the biblical term but remember Adam in generic in in hebrew and in the way it was used means not a man it means generic humanity and so when so many of the human beings who have laughed at the bible and said isn't that stupid so god created one man big deal uh various things like that uh adam does not mean one man the source any one of you can go and look it up in the Bible, I mean in the library, if you wish.

Find out what the meaning is. You'll find Adam means generic humanity. So God created generic humanity in his image and likeness.

That's just one of the terms. Now another one of the terms is Tiphareth, which means beauty.

God saw that it was good. Of course, we look at physiognomous terrificus, as one of my friends calls it sometimes, that is the face of some people, and we think it's pretty terrific on the negative side.

It doesn't look very beautiful to us, but maybe we haven't learned how to see.

And maybe when a child draws a picture, it's just learning how to draw. Wait until the child grows up if it has artistic ability, and it may be very beautiful. We're in a process.

While a thing is in process, it looks like something that it isn't when it's finished. So beauty is another term that's given the same place on the tree of life. And Mashiach, which means, as we just told you, Messiah, Redeemer, Christus, Savior.

Therefore, the whole idea is grouped together, and there are more, but we're just taking these particular aspects in order to show our subject for this morning and for this wonderful and glorious season. We therefore have an indication that generic humanity is the Redeemer, is the Christ, is the Savior, is beautiful.

And I say that humanity is beautiful of whatever it looks like on the surface at the moment those of us who have eyes to see discover this very readily and still we haven't learned how to make very beautiful bodies yet a few more incarnations and Marilyn Monroe might weep with shame isn't that right? More experience makes perfect. Anyway, the Redeemer, the Savior, generic humanity, the Christ. Remember, one of the main ideas related to this whole place on the tree is the True Self. The True Self with a capital S seated in the the hearts of man. That in you which says I, that in you which feels I, that in you which is your point of awareness, that in you which is your point of watching, of listening, that in you which is eternal, immortal, that in you which was never born, and that in you which can never die, that too is part of the meaning of the aspects related together on the one point on the tree now of course generic humanity in terms of adam eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil this is where all the trouble started and I know you men blame us females for tempting you into biting that apple and I'm sure it was very naughty of us but look how much exciting expansion of consciousness you've been doing as a result you see living in the garden of eden this again is important for full understanding of christ Christ. Living in the Garden of Eden means living in the state of pristine innocence, which means also living in the state of complete ignorance. In other words, suppose you are in a state of ecstasy or rapture and peace, but you don't know that you are. You know there's the rapture, but there's no knowing I am I. You remember what has been said of human consciousness the thing that makes us human is that I think therefore I am quoting one of our older scholars the fact that you can think I and think of I as related to something else the fact that you can look out at your own thought processes at your own feelings In other words, your objective analytical awareness and abilities.

This is what gives you a self-consciousness.

Being consciousness per se is quite rapturous. I've experienced that level of consciousness. Only in that level, there is no such thing as knowing that there's a self or not self. In that level there is just a feeling of I like all space I beginningless endless without anything to be aware of no such concept as time or thing or person in other words there's of course there's no trouble but on the other hand there's no knowledge that you're not having trouble either you're not self-consciously enjoying this state of rapture and in as much as the lord of life or the creator is consciousness its nature is to create and what can it create except aspects of itself if we want to try to be analytical about a spiritual idea which really we can't but we try to point to that basic idea therefore the whole evolution of self-consciousness that is of becoming a conscious son of God Adam is generic humanity and God created Adam in his own image and likeness which means he had to create him as a son of himself because don't we create our children in our own image and likeness and doesn't the tree and the flower and the bird and the little glimmering insect on wing everything creates after its own image and likeness that is the image of itself and the likeness of itself becomes recreated on the physical plane in certain ways that we see but we're speaking about the spiritual aspect of it so I hope that you boys do not think too badly of us girls or you men of us women if you think I am being too kittenish and should put a more mature word in front of the female aspect of life but we are all forever young don't you see forever young as the babe newborn and older than eternity so we can use whatever description we feel like at the moment depending on what we feel like expressing the evolution of self-consciousness therefore it was dependent on developing a knowledge of good and evil that is of opposites because in the final analysis there's no such thing as good and evil there are the opposites there's the cosmic mother and there's the cosmic father there's the cosmic female principle and the cosmic male principle there's the light and the dark the day and the night and it is in the differentiation of these laws of opposites that the whole impact of consciousness takes place.

So that this pristine, rapturous, non-self-aware consciousness becomes compressed.

And this is crucifixion, incidentally, because it hurts.

You get yourself, when you get compressed, you're in pain.

And therefore eating of this apple certainly made it inevitable and essential.

That pain be experienced. Because pain is really the method that the Lord of Life uses in order to attain self-conscious centers of itself.

And that is really, in essence, the crucifixion. Attaining this complete self-consciousness, from that one has to become king. And therefore another name for that same point you remember jesus was called king that is another one of the hebrew names meaning ruler one has to become king that is one has to learn how to rule all these elements these to direct the flow of consciousness in special ways to stop being the foolish staggering child who thinks he is alone and separated this whole feeling of separation as for the purpose of becoming a completely conscious Christ.

And being unconscious about it certainly wouldn't give us the powers, nor would it give us the conscious glory, nor any of the things that God apparently intends. So we have all all been flowing through a process incarnation after incarnation a sort of pressure process where we've been knocked up against troubles why because of the sin and the sin is what ignorance just plain ignorance the more ignorant you are the more terrible things you're going to do the more knowledge and wisdom you have the more mature things you're going to do you will live more maturely you'll be something more this is so very little realized by most aspirants they draw such strong demarcation lines between people who are so-called evil and people who are so-called good but of course to the degree that any of us have the sense of separateness from each other we're going to be insecure and we're going to have to at least symbolically if not actually hit each other on the head in order to try to survive or to protect ourselves and to the degree that we attain a feeling and a realization of our unity to that degree do we start protecting each other even at the risk of losing our lives and this becomes an ever more close approximation to attaining the full spirit of God or of the Christ ideal.

Now, 2,000 years ago, we are told that there was born in Bethlehem someone who would be the king of Israel.

And of course I know there are some who feel this is a purely symbolic story and do not go along with it at all. And there are some who feel that it is a very actual and true story. And they do go along with it. We say to you that it is not important which way you want to believe it because belief is only belief. Belief when you directly experience your center of selfhood which is the christ consciousness then you will know and you will not have to believe and believing either way or the other will not make any difference despite what orthodoxy tell you that is that unless you believe that christ came to save you that christ died on the cross so that you could be redeemed of your sins, you're going to go to a foreverness of some place where it's very hot. Of course, people who hate cold weather might not think that that's so bad, but this basic idea has been held with an intensity and an emotion so strong that we've had developments of various kinds of inquisitions where instead of man nourishing man man has tortured and torn man apart in order of course to save his soul is this the spirit of christ and yet this is what happens when people stagger in ignorance and it is utter ignorance which makes people do such uh horrible I mean unbelievable things. Let's analyze what the true meaning of the birth of Christ would have then, whether it was literal or not. We feel that there was born a human being in Bethlehem who was called Yehoshua. That's the Hebrew name. And incidentally, Yehoshua means God is salvation.

Salvation. God is salvation. That's what it means. That'll tell you something. So we feel that there was born such a man in Bethlehem at approximately that time. And we feel, as we said, you need not accept it, but please don't reject it. Just take the principle, and then we will try to show you how to really work towards experiencing this state which is yours to have and which you are destined to have sooner or later.

God is salvation was the name of this man, and in actuality the whole story of Jesus is a complete and perfect account of what was prophesied or foretold in all the various esoteric Essene schools of mystery training of which we incidentally as you know are one of the descendants and it was foretold by the prophets of old and then in the New Testament John said behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Now the Lamb of God, incidentally, Lamb is from Ram, which is Aries, the astrological sign Aries, and the tarot key assigned to that is the Emperor. And the Lamb of God is therefore the King, and it is the King which taketh away the sins of the world. And by By being king, we mean what? By ruling our baser emotions, by ruling our immaturities, by ruling that in us which feels separate from the other person. The truth is, as we mentioned to you two weeks ago, that we are all made out of the one life substance, that though we appear to each other as separate things, as separate people, Nothing could be farther from the truth. If you put your hands in the water and just let your fingertips show above the water, each fingertip, if it had consciousness at the end, that is the sensory awareness that was self-conscious, at the end of each tip would think of itself as a separate entity and would not know that though it has a very unique function, because the thumb can do what this finger cannot do and the second finger cannot do what the third finger can do and so on though each finger has a specialized function it is nothing except that it is a part of that hand which is underneath the water and in the same way what jesus tried to show and what we are trying to show is that you and I are not and never were separate creatures our consciousness our real consciousness is what we might call the true christ being in most of us immersed in this water we see each other only through the tips of our fingers or through these separate parts or separate aspects or separate expressions of the one life and therefore when it says in the bible that we are in christ and christ is in us nothing could be more true because remember again that part of of the tree of life which is called the christ consciousness is also the oneself we are in christ and christ is in us and we are in that whether we accept it or not whether we believe it or not whether we defile it or not whether we murder whether we steal whether we torture or not we are still in Christ and Christ is still in us because you cannot just cut off a finger and separate it from the rest of the hand and still have the hand whole and this whole universe is one living being which is God one living essence which is God the Father and the self-consciousness we are giving you the real qabalistic idea as it was known of old and which we are trying to help bring back to you so that you can be and do what it is your destiny to be and do and so we also have to remind you we have to say to you that exactly as the story gives us in relation to Jesus the Christ you have been wandering in ignorance and in temptation you know Christ was taken up to the mountaintop and tempted by the devil for 40 years every time your self-consciousness reaches a certain new plateau or a new level that in you which still feels separate from your fellow man immediately gets into action and starts trying to feel superior starts trying to feel better looks down with contempt on other human beings and wasn't Jesus tempted well didn't the devil say to Jesus first of all cast yourself down from this mountaintop in order to show that you are the ruler in other words give signs and wonders and wasn't he tempted to show his power his and and or in order to have his kingdom as we might say on the physical plane and do you know what the greatest problem is to you and you and you and me the greatest problem we really have we may think it's because we need more money or she or he doesn't love us enough or she or he doesn't appreciate us enough but that isn't true our greatest problem is that we all have hidden power complexes the whole story of the temptation of jesus shows that and what is a hidden power complex if you have to downgrade any other human being it's because you have to upgrade yourself because that means you're better isn't that a part of a power complex you want to tell everyone else what to do sometimes you want to even tell them where to go if they don't do what you tell want to tell them to do but that is all part of the same story and the chuckle is the most redeeming feature we have I think in actuality but our need to feel better our need to have the great of the power over others is all still it's a result of our separativeness my darlings the trouble is we are insecure whether we have a million dollars or whether we haven't got a dollar whether we think we have a husband or a wife or a sweetheart who loves us or doesn't or friends who will be loyal to us or will betray us deep down inside we are insecure and because we're insecure we keep reaching in the the wrong direction for our security. We keep searching in the wrong way. Reaching in the wrong direction is mainly involved with attempting to get ourselves in places of authority over others, whether it be in our feeling of superiority spiritually or whether it be in the various material ways that we attempt it. And in essence, it is a basic underneath loneliness.

Loneliness we will never get over this insecurity we will never get over this loneliness if we keep searching for the answer on a physical plane alone though its expression will finally come there because remember jesus said seek ye first the kingdom of heaven now what is it to seek first the kingdom of heaven first of all it's being able to say with jesus get thee behind me or get thee hence satan in other words to become so aware of what is going on in our consciousness in our emotions and our thoughts that we are self-consciously able to say get thee hence because this is the satan attempts our own immaturities and our own ignorance and whenever we see ourselves trying to do and to be all those things that are not expressing the peace on earth goodwill towards men whenever we see ourselves doing or being any of those aspects or elements we have to learn to say get thee hence to have that much alertness that much awareness and then jesus if you remember he said watch watch what is watching but being alertly self-conscious it's only in the alert self-conscious awareness of this instant that finally we will have the experience of being the son of god remember christ called himself not only the son of god but the son of man this alone should tell us that he isn't anything different from us except in age if you stagger around learning how to walk when you're a year old that does that make you evil it just makes you young and Jesus we can say had reached the age where he walked with beauty and symmetry and control and balance while we still stagger and fall and bruise ourselves and yet through this very doing we are learning and through this knowledge of what the Christ consciousness is and can be we We have something to help us.

We have something to hold us. We have something to guide us. We have the whole story and the principle and the spirit of what our true self really happens to be. And what is that true story? You know, Isaiah prophesied, himself took our infirmities and was a man of sorrows.

Himself, I'm going to explain that to you a little more, and in Matthews it said, he is despised of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.

Now you see, this is the story of us, is it not? Are you not of sorrow and acquainted with grief?

Of course you are. Even in your contentment, some part of you is of sorrow. And is acquainted with grief, and sometimes far more profoundly than other times.

And are you not banished, at the moment at least, from something which makes you yearn, which makes you grieve? Do you not often feel a homesickness, a loneliness, and you don't know what for?

Lots of people think it's for their good old hometown. Well, that's because they're young. They don't realize that we're homesick for only one thing, and that's to return to the place we came from, but with self-consciousness, as a full conscious son of God, because we have become a true son of man.

And remember what Jesus said, the foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have their nests, but the son of man hath not a place to lay his head this was truly showing a perception of sorrow and yet this is a time of gladness still you see the whole secret of attaining to the Christ consciousness is in what we mentioned two weeks ago also in being able to perceive that what was really meant when Jesus said take my burdens in the various ways that he said it when he said come unto me all ye who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest when he invited humanity to carry the cross which he did and which we do but you see he was able to do this why because he had conscious realization that there is no separation between you and me you remember I told you that I at least can bear witness to some of the aspects of truth related to this and I can bear witness my brethren that there isn't a single emotion you can feel which doesn't affect me and there isn't a single emotion I can feel which doesn't affect you you. There isn't a thought you can have which doesn't affect me and vice versa and each other. There's only one difference between one who knows at least a little bit and one who has not yet learned to know. The difference is conscious awareness. When you have an emotion of hatred it is definitely projected and absorbed by the people you have projected that hatred to and people you may not even ever have heard of you have added that expression to the universe and when someone has an emotion of hatred towards you the same thing occurs but you are not consciously aware of that level of flow there's a substance within which we all live and move and have our being a subtle substance and it flows in between and back and forth in a measure that would astonish you could you but be more aware of it and when you become aware of it you become aware truly that It is impossible for you to hurt another human being without hurting yourself, because it happens inside, in that substance.

And it's impossible for you to love another human being without loving yourself.

Sometimes, when I want to bring a little extra chuckle, I say, well, you know, one thing I can tell you, I am a narcissist, very narcissistic, because if the principle holds true, that by loving another you love yourself. I must admit that when I look in the mirror there are times when I'm quite enchanted. Though on the other hand this is just at times. Now there are times I look in the mirror when I'm very much the reverse. That's when the part of me that is still struggling in the darkness towards the light temporarily takes the upper hand and this is true of all of us, don't you see? The point is, Christ did die to save us. The point is, Christ does die to save us. The point is, you die to save you and me, and I die to save you and me because we are all living on a physical plane level where births and deaths and births and deaths take place inexorably and this we do as long as we still have to attain to the perfected consciousness and jesus therefore if we say he died to save us we can accept that provided we also accept it of other human beings including ourselves and to say that Jesus redeemed us our sins we can say this too if we remember if we remember that every time we tune in to somebody else's grief or cruelty and can take that tune in that awareness and make it something else if we do that we too in Christ then redeem others from sin because this is the job of the occult aspirant and Qabalah this is the real job and we try to rule you and we try to love you and we try to to drag you in in every way we can to the recognition that in as much as all emotions and thoughts wash back and forth where you are being washed with an emotion of resentment or jealousy or fear or hatred or these host of things if you will look at it and say get the hens hate satan and in its place put the emotion of father forgive them for they know not what they do and that includes yourself you've got to forgive yourself or you're not going to be able to say that because it's happening in you no matter who may be the projecting element for that emotion when you can do that then you with christ are redeeming others from their sins because you're not continuing to add to the hatred and crucifixion of life you're starting to bring the resurrection you are taking the lower the unevolved and you are evolving it through your own heart and this is a suffering that is why Christ has been called a man of suffering but remember he said my burden is light this is a kind of suffering that is as preferable to the physical plane kind of pleasures as naturally joy is preferable to sorrow because this kind of suffering has with it a joy an exaltation it's because this is because we do do not identify ourselves with these emotions.

We liberate ourselves and therefore we liberate all humanity from these emotions.

Remember therefore that the whole story of Christ, the whole story of Jesus, is symbolically true in terms of our own evolution. There's much that we could tell you, but there's only so much time to talk. We've mentioned the various parts of it as we go along with the teaching and training elements in our Thursday night classes and in our Sunday morning talks and in all the other various activities. We help to bring you all the different phases of it and to give you and show you the techniques to help you strengthen your ability to handle it. But remember that in as much as you were born, Christ has been born. That in as much as you die christ is crucified that inasmuch as you suffer christ is suffering because everything that happens to you happens to the spirit which is the spirit of all of us and everything that happens to your fellow man happens to you and to the spirit of all of us therefore my darlings you are your brother's keeper.

Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do, should be a song and melody in your heart every moment of every day. You should learn and you will learn to reach for the feeling of that Christ spirit that walks with you, to be able to say with the Christ spirit, which is your true selfhood, my father and I are one, to know that yours is the glory and yours is the privilege of helping to lift the sorrow of the world to know that wherever you look you are seeing a miracle that is beyond description and to be able to know with Jesus the Christ when he said to the woman if you knew who I am you would never weep again now I will say to you if you knew who I am you would never weep again and if I really knew who you were often enough I would never weep again and if you could look at each other and be able to say if you knew who I am you would really never be able to weep again but the way you will find out is keep searching in the eyes keep searching in the heart look for it in the song of the the bird listen for it in the whisper of the wind through the trees feel for it whenever you're loving any human being any human being feel for it and contact it by looking into the eyes of your fellow man and reminding yourself that he walks in loneliness searching for the Christ spirit and that to the degree you love and uplift him to that degree are you being the Christ with Christ with the spirit of life which lives us all this we feel is more the true spirit of Christmas than is usually understood and we invite you to absorb it into your hearts so that you can never completely lose it and so that it will grow and guide you so that your star of Bethlehem will shine with you through all your days and your nights until you know the fullness of the glory of Christ consciously and forevermore.
