This morning my title is, I'll have to read it as you can see, The True Meaning of Planetary Influences.

Now, I thought that our reading from the Bible this morning was very appropriate, The Lord is My Shepherd, because I'm sure all of you have been hearing all the dire prophecies that have been made relating to the conglomeration, I think is a better way to put it, of planets, which have been intensifying themselves, and the aspect, incidentally, is taking place right now, today, and right on through this evening into tomorrow. That is the conjunction of curiously enough every single planet in the zodiac that has to do with the chakras or the planetary centers therefore with the complete evolution of man and the only planets that are not involved in this conjunction are uranus neptune and pluto these remember are the higher octaves that have to do with more cosmic elements as they affect man because everything as you will see after we're through this morning if you haven't seen it before everything certainly affects man but we want to try to give you more of a concept of what the planetary influences mean and in that way we will not be as as subject to falling into the trap of accepting all the various so-called astrologers interpretations good bad and indifferent and yet we will see that astrology is a fantastic and true science provided and of course notice we use the word provided we have a true astrological scientist involved in reading or interpreting the various aspects or planetary meanings. So let's first look at the principles involved in astrology and in planetary influences so that we can see it is not exactly what it seems to be. In fact, it's a great deal more than it seems to be.

As you have heard us say perhaps ad nauseum we say it so often though we hope you're not tired of hearing us say it because remember in occultism we are dealing with factors that have to do with an attempt to transform and transmute the entire inner life the subconsciousness the patterns of the past not only the past in relation to this life but the past in relation to previous lifetimes. We're dealing with forces, with patterns of the mass mind, and so because of dealing with things that are so, in a sense, almost rigid, we need to work in such a way just like the continuous dropping of water on a rock, which will eventually wear it away. We need to keep repeating certain ideas in order to keep giving subconsciousness and therefore the reasoning mind reminders over and over and over again in order to completely change the thinking, the feeling, the reactions, the responses to the various life patterns, the environment, the relationships uh from what they have been in the past so never think for one moment that it is important to always receive something new you see what we try to do with you oh it's very insidious we keep trying to make you feel that it's something new we're saying because we give it a little extra twist this is part of using the spiritual psychology so that your mind will be open so it will be full of the wonder of the child so it will be receptive to receiving the idea whereas if it was said in the same way you would soon get bored and we wouldn't blame you because the mind and the emotions are so made that attention is not held very readily over what is apparent repetition.

Nevertheless, it is the use of repetition which will bring about the changes, and without it, the changes are utterly impossible.

They just cannot take place. Even when someone seems to have an instantaneous illumination or experience of cosmic consciousness, for example, it isn't that it happened instantaneously. There's been much much work repetitious work in terms of re-evaluating the thought the emotion the eye the life pattern until finally you come to that very subtle ground or area where the influx of the higher life or higher awareness can pour through So you see, in a sense, we don't ever teach you anything really new, but we do our best to make it sound new to you because it is new each time, inasmuch as there's never anything that's exactly the same. And here we come to planetary influences just to show you the way the cosmos is run Nothing is in the same place That it was a split second ago or a year ago or ten thousand years or twenty five thousand years ago Everything in manifestation is in continuous motion in a continuous motion And so nothing that is said even when it sounds the same is really the same because we are different from moment to moment the impingement of the environment has made us different the influx from the of the forces both from the so-called cosmic levels as well as the so-called physical or environmental levels are continuously changing us our subconsciousness is continuously continuously receiving a flow of forces from people, as well as other levels of life.

Therefore, never think that anything is really exactly the same, no matter how it looks.

Our planet, the Earth, for instance, when we come to an equinox and we say, well, here it is spring again, it isn't in the same position that it was last spring or the spring before, because you see the Sun is also traveling with its planets its children around its orbit in the Milky Way what we call our own nebula or our own little universe or a big one depending on which way your mind runs we don't mind which way you like to think about it it's all right but in as much as the sun is in a different place as well as the planet because the planets go where the sun goes even when we have what seems to be a repetition here is spring again we're in a different place in the universe our relationship to the stars are utterly different the therefore therefore the forces as they focus upon the planet from this radius.

These are different. They're interpermeated forces which have an entirely different effect. And this is true even of our nebula, the Milky Way. It also is in motion.

So nothing is ever the same. Everything is in a state of flux. And this has to do with this excitement about planetary influences now and in a way the excitement is good because it's true this is a fantastic thing that is occurring right now from our point of view but we need to look at it differently that's why we want to understand the principle behind planetary influences more fully at least as understood by Qabalah now many of you I know have taken my class on esoteric astrology in tarot and have therefore come to understand a great deal of the ideas that we're going to speak about though we're going to show them in a different way as we said it's not really the same we try to give it to you with a different slant so that it will be a new thing for you each time and deepen your perceptions in your heart and in your mind.

And through our various talks, even on Sunday morning, we have brought in the significance of the emanations which come from the universe around us, which we call the stars. However, now let's consider it in its special way.

As we know, according to Qabalah, all things start by the beginning of the whirling, which is an interesting thing, this ageless teaching, with this exact terminology, beginning of the whirling, and now we know science has certainly verified for us that both in the largest sense, that is the whirling of the nebula, in its smaller sense, the whirling of planets around the sun, which travels around the orbit within some unknown center in the nebula, in its smallest sense, the so-called electrons which revolve around the nucleus of the atom, we have this whirling motion. And Qabalah teaches us and has taught before the dawn of time, all things start by the beginning of the whirlings.

Now the whirlings are what? Those of you who have read any of the Eastern philosophies, are familiar with the idea of the wheel of life this particularly comes from buddhism of course the wheel of life now what is the wheel of life as a matter of fact qabalah uses that term too uh in reference to one of the ten divine emanations the wheel of life is shown and the tenth tarot key incidentally shows that very fully but with both its esoteric and so-called exoteric significance right what is the wheel of life apparently the motion of the consciousness of the substance of god and by motion it would be a very good idea if you started to think about it as not the motion of anything physical basically but that the physical is what you are experiencing in the outer sense of the motion of the cosmic mind because all things take place within this cosmic substance therefore are not just related to it but are a part of that motion therefore it is the motion of the cosmic mind that actually works in such a way so that in terms of evolution we can say that and in terms of our present sensory experiences that this motion is experienced by us in its outer sense as whirling motion but when we take a telescope and when and when we take an electron we see this and of course there are some cynics who will say well no wonder human beings are so dizzy and perhaps they're right because we're certainly whirling now this whirling motion as we pointed out does not whirl into the same position that is why in Qabalah and Tarot we talk about the circling spiral I wish I had all the Tarot keys out here to show it to you and the various Tarot keys but we don't like to take out the Tarot keys on Sunday mornings because we want the whole spirit of the inner worship and therefore for the beauty of the ritual untouched by the technical parts of the occult training but we bring those out on a during our types of class work and pranayama still certainly most of you are familiar enough with the tarot keys by this time so that you should be able to bring it up in your mind and if you're not just after the service or before the service whenever you feel like it walk in the back and you'll see tarot keys on the paths of the tree of life and back there I had that made specially for that purpose so that people could go and look but please not while I'm talking it would hurt my feelings now then this whirling motion then is a spiral motion and therefore each time the circle is made where it returns upon itself it's on a different level and the spiral motion is a higher level this is the way we experience the outer form of something taking place in consciousness if we took uh electronic microscopes or telescopes and examined some of the processes within our own physical body they wouldn't look at all like they look uh in the scale with which we see them otherwise. But think of your physical body for a moment so you can get a better concept of the idea of the universe being an entire organism. And remember when we say the universe is an organism and that this organism is the body of God, remember we are not saying that that's all that God is. We're saying this is an aspect of god in a specialized kind of activity activity and what else this cosmic mind is I guess we'll have to become more evolved before we can even begin to touch it and we should be thrilled that we can start touching what those higher levels now which to us from our state or level is like cosmic consciousness but always there's more and more as the Masters report to us having cosmic consciousness is not the end of everything then there's more cosmic consciousness to get or something similar at any rate think of your physical body and realize that your Your toenail couldn't grow if it weren't being fed by substances from the entire body.

Not a hair of your head would grow if it weren't being fed by substances from your entire body.

The fact that you bump your toe does not just affect your toe. The whole body brings about the gathers its resources in order to send extra circulation and other elements chemical elements to that toe to help it to heal it and this is your physical body now as above so below according to true true esoteric thinking. The larger organism, which in Qabalah is called the grand man, this larger organism, which we see as the stars in the heavens, and remember that's just one part of it. Suppose some scientist were looking at us through an electronic microscope, all he would see are a bunch of atoms. And he wouldn't see our true form at all, would he?

So you see, it depends on how you're looking.

Therefore, think of this grand, the body, that is just the body of this grand man, as being the entire universe.

And if this is an organism, one organism, just think. Nothing can happen in one part of the universe that doesn't affect the other, just like nothing can happen to your toe or your knee or your head or your hair that isn't affected by and in a two-way direction incidentally it isn't a one-way effect as you know your heart pumps blood not for the sake of the heart but for the sake of the whole body your endocrine glands send out the most minute types of chemicals for the entire body, although there are certain specialized processes. In the same way, and this is the thing that's so strange, and this is why so many mystics discover that a perception into the way things really are makes them look so simple, and yet, of course, it's really so complex from another point of view. But in the same manner, the interpermeations of the universe are in continuous effect.

We as a planet, then, to understand some of these principles of planetary influences, We, as a planet circling around a sun, are the recipients of all the energies in the entire universe, just as much as any large sun would be. I often have to smile when some people say, well, just a dust mote in this huge universe, you know, what are we? Well, we are a living, vital aspect of the whole living process. It and as a part of it we are just as vital to it as it is to us this is one of the things we should really realize because of being a part of it your toenail is a vital part of your body and so is your hair so is your so are the tips of your fingers so are the motions of the muscular fibers of your being every part of your function is vital in order to have a total perfect function and so you would certainly never see us say not Not if you think straight.

Oh, this finger is unimportant.

No, you are very important, no matter how vast the universe seems to be. Because, as we said again, there's this continuous interplay of forces taking place. And of course we can see it on the physical level very clearly. We know, I think that I read somewhere, that it takes several miles of lead to stop one form of cosmic ray. It goes so fast and has such intensity mind you several miles of lead Which of course we haven't got in other words. There are some of the forces that some of the flows the fluidic flows of energy and light from stars that we've never even seen From nebulas we don't even conceive of yet the telescopes haven't even reached it yet If they ever will these are being permeated. They're washing the universe they strike not at us but into us through us there are circulating fluid on the physical level but they also have their metaphysical element and in as much as everything that is outer has its inner significance everything that is outer is caused by consciousness there is the consciousness behind it there is the action of consciousness which is a part of it and here's where the theory of astrology come in. People who are not familiar with astrology at all are apt to make very snide remarks. They're apt to think that there's a whole bunch of superstitious thinking, you know, that this planet's going to cause us this and that planet's going to cause us that. That's because they're thinking materialistically. And of course we as Qabalists and occultists are trying to show that if we look into what seems to be even the materialistic thinking we'll see this interpermeation and therefore this reliance on all the energies of the universe we live because these flows of living light come from all over not only from our solar sun therefore if you again consider a circle and remember astrology is something that has been an empirical science since before the dawn of time and the unfortunate thing about astrology is this that just like some people who would have no musical ability would take a few lessons and then get out there and start teaching other people how to play music you know what kind of result you would have in the same way people who have no talent for astrology you have to have a talent for deep and profound metaphysics occultism the metaphysical part of occultism, as well as other elements, to become a true interpreter of the forces of consciousness and life, which we call the forces of the universe or the zodiacal and planetary forces. Of course, every one of our Tarot keys, you know, portrays the inner essence or meaning in terms of consciousness of one of the signs of the zodiac or one of the planetary rulers. I I don't know how many of you are aware of this.

Those who take lessons are aware of it, of course. But that is so. So that tarot and Qabalah, you can really call the esoteric science of astrology.

And incidentally in that, we do not bother with prognostication.

We feel that we haven't achieved the evolutionary level where we're sure what level people are going to respond on and that we haven't got enough of the data yet. But there's much we can tell. There's much we can know and we do we do when we decide to take a look at the pattern so in terms of astrology then if we will remember that we think of the earth as being the center of the universe now of course we know it isn't but for us it is and as we have we pointed out to you once before just think to yourself think up as far as you can down as far as you can to the right to the left before and behind or from your own center think yourself into an infinitude in all directions you as your eye are the center of your universe because everything happening in the universe as it makes its angle and touches you and pours through you you are the center for you aren't you? Therefore it's perfectly accurate to use the planet and your own beingness as being the center of the universe for this kind of understanding, realizing that somebody on some far-flung star could be doing the same thing as well as on another planet, wherever anybody is, that's the center of the universe for them so because we are in the center of a boundless what appears to be a boundless circle of stars we can say that the energy or the light flowing from this all these directions as they relate to us that that is as they strike us have special meaning for us as the the center, the bullseye, for that particular group of forces.

Well, what was done, the heavens were mapped out in this way. They were divided into 12 segments because it was found by much study. I think there was something like, I'm not sure, 40-something thousand years was spent in keeping the history of every man, woman, and child.

That's one of the most original of sciences, you know, the empirical science of astrology.

So a very long time was taken in mapping out the apparent influences, and it was discovered that people born at a certain time from one time to another certainly in common showed specific traits but then there were other elements that were involved so at any rate the twelve sections were mapped out which we know is the twelve signs of the zodiac and it was found that when the solar sun which is our solar sun and incidentally really symbolizes and it's more than symbol our own individuality when the solar sun was in that particular part of the heavens for us, in relation to us, which we call Aries, that is, between March something and April something, something usually 19th to 21st, because it varies within two days, the changeover from one sign to another. It was found that there were certain characteristics, and now why shouldn't it be? Your heart has a certain characteristics and your lungs have and there are predispositions in each cell of your body and what is true above true below and so on so so pouring from the infinite or practically infinite spaces within a certain angle that struck finally to you especially at the time of your birth which will explain it was found that these influences were at their highest for your individuality meanwhile the other influences are there but they were found to have to do with other parts of the nature so that in a sense you might say we have a 12-fold nature in terms of the 12 signs of the zodiac which is our way of being and responding in a back-and-forth flow to the universe itself which we have named the 12 signs of the of the zodiac and then within that we have our own solar system which is very much closer to us and which we more personally express. Therefore these elements were also mapped and it was found that the position of the planets in relation to the earth, that is to where you were, also had very specific meanings in terms of what kind of activity you were bound to find yourself in because remember the solar system is something you're not separate from your part of a living being which we call the solar system which is part of a larger being which we call the nebula that's really what it amounts to and you represent as far as we know the highest evolutionary level potentially for this solar system because of having achieved self-consciousness. So you have your periods of evolution which finally make you arrive at certain points. Now the interesting thing is that modern science has come, that is certain departments of modern science, has come to see that astrologers weren't really as superstitious as they thought a few have most of them refuse to give credit to astrology and they've developed they keep developing new sciences when they give them beautiful names like astrophysics and astrobiology and the study really happens to do with cycles as as they affect us in terms of the planets and the stars true I've read it in my science magazine if anyone who takes the time to research it will find this and then they almost always carefully point out that this is scientific whereas astrology was a superstition which amuses me because we don't care what name they give it if only they'll start coming closer to home and closer to the truth therefore we may again ask what is the meaning of planetary influences well having just very briefly and this is so briefly, showing you some of the principles that underlie astrology.

Let's now consider what occurs when a person is born. You see, until you take your first breath, you're really in a sense a part of the mother, because you have not started to live as an individual in this incarnation yet you have been tied in with your whole mother essence but when you're born when you take that first breath for this incarnation this is the first impact of the forces of the universe on you that first breath that you take in it's like taking a picture and that picture is exact and accurate it is you and anyone who knows how to read it could be able to tell you about all sorts of things that no one else would know as a matter of fact the amusing thing is tell you about things you don't know about yourself that you would even be apt to deny it sometimes if it was someone who really knew how to look into the chart and very few people do it's too bad but but it's a very special talent, truly.

Anyway, this is the picture of you, but that isn't the finished thing. Don't forget everything is in motion.

So this is, although this is the basic pattern of you, and this includes the powers and the flowing substance, therefore the thinking processes and the pushing of energies that have to do with consciousness coming from everywhere.

This is going on with you at all times from it.

Really before you were born certainly but I mean in a specialized way from your moment of birth until your moment of a so-called death or dropping the physical body and there are these changes that keep taking place because of the fact that everything is in motion in any case and that's and you're in motion with the various motions now consider the configuration that's occurring now which everyone's so excited about and really rightly so actually the sun with its planets you know travel has its uh motion through what you might call its equinoxes just like the planet has its motion around the sun through its equinoxes and when we When we map the entire Milky Way, or our own particular universe, when we map that out, when I say we, this is the literal we you understand, we find that every age, this is what it's called, every age lasts something like 2,100 years. That is, the Sun goes through a zodiacal sign by itself as it's traveling in its motion around the center of the Milky Way.

Every 2,100 years, it changes signs, just like we change the signs every month, every approximate 30 days, you see. The sun's time element for change from sign to sign on this larger scale because as planets I hope you can see the picture we revolve around the sun so we're in different parts of the heaven and therefore the sun in relation to us and the rest of the universe has a certain slant that bring the energies but the sun itself because it's traveling around a vaster area the milky way which is something like I think a hundred thousand light years thick something like that at any rate it has from our point of view and this is always relative a smaller or a longer motion though to the consciousness that has evolved beyond the time space level that we have it wouldn't seem that way therefore the sun with its planets and that means us because we're part of all the motions of the universe our evolution is not separate from the evolution of god's beingness you might say it goes from sign to sign every 2 100 years or so and it forms its what is called equinoxal aspect every two twenty five thousand nine hundred years actually of course that is making its complete circle now the aspect we're having now therefore is very similar to what happened 25,900 years ago approximately that's why we don't know exactly what it means because we haven't got a in historical record the occurrences that go beyond say six to eight thousand years ago. The rest of it is a more or less guesswork searching for historical facts through the sciences, hidden buried cities and so on. And therefore for this entire solar system we have entered a completely new and very vital cycle now there are lots of astrologers who said well this isn't so unusual after all there have been six planets in signs before and it's true Manley Hall for instance found that almost every time that six planets have conjuncted in one sign that was a time when a war was started he went back over many wars and discovered this to be true well it's possible that a war will be started now I mean in this next year very possible but on the other hand we've been having so many wars how can we be sure I don't think that war ever stopped do you so it's hard to know exactly how that will affect us of course the thing and of course the doomsday carriers you know how how many people decided it's the end of the world and some of them actually we sold property and went off to various places in order to be safe which kind of strikes me as rather foolish because if we have the end of the world and say there are six spots that are safe why should we be worried so we'll be together on the astral and what's they get excited about what's wrong with the astral as a matter of fact they tell us it's much nicer than conditions here provided we've evolved enough of a mentality to be able to work with the astral substance don't you see so it seems kind of foolish for people go running about and going on to mountaintops for these reasons but if they need to all right bless their darling hearts if that's where they're going to be safe God bless them let's wish them safety the point is we're always safe no matter what happens if we find out who and what we really are in any case and we shouldn't put so such importance in the body but we should love and revere it of course and take the best care of it but if a cosmic process comes on we certainly should be willing to share in it so I run away we're part of God and we're part of the cosmic process however we do not go along with these doomsday carriers and holders we figure it this way that it's true that this is a fantastic aspect thing taking place in Aquarius involving as it does every one of the planets that has to do with our chakras the seven holy planets as they are called certainly indicates the fantastic change in the entire personality of man but this of course I've been told by the master for years and I've been telling you for years that the time is now at hand and it isn't that it's just happened it's been happening you see we entered the Aquarian age between 50 and 100 years ago however when when there's a change such a vast change that takes place in the motion of the Sun through the Milky Way therefore with the different energies that are involved you don't see immediately what it's going to do although you this plenty happens because ever since this occurred we've had this tremendous upsurge of invention you know electricity everything new age that is involved is because of the Aquarian age whereas in the Piscean age we had a very different set of circumstances indeed that had to do with very much more addled kind of thinking because people hadn't yet learned to push forward with the analytical and inventive aspects of the mind as much although always you have exceptions no matter what well the Aquarian age already has been ushered in and various things that have happened like the atom bomb the hydrogen bomb all sorts of the television the radio this is all Aquarian Age phenomena now what then does it mean to have this tremendous lineup which the conjunction means that all these planets are together in pretty much one spot so they each feed the other one energy and you have an an intensification of energy that is fantastic.

Just like you've heard us say, if two or more are here in my name, there am I amongst you. Well, imagine when seven get together, because these are beings, whatever they look like on the outside, they're spirits with an outer form, as we see them. Here they've gotten together, and some of them are what we might call pretty troublesome ones, just because they push us out of inertia And they cause us therefore to feel frustrated Like the child who wants to cross the street and get a ball because it's ball Went out in the street and mama holds it back and say no no dear you'll get run over You know the child will scream Yell I hate you mama. You know he frustrated me well when we have planetary aspects Which we think are sad or tragic. We're pretty much like the child Screaming I hate you mama, but we don't realize it most of our frustrations are our protection actually, if we only knew it we're in the loving hands or arms of the Divine Mother as well as under the protection of the Divine Father because we're a part of the universal being it's a pretty wonderful feeling to have however, this again, back to this particular gee, I'm speaking too long and I've been so good lately too or I've cut it off in time not this morning this particular aspect therefore that we are having is an ushering in of an extraordinary intensity of the new age development now that we're going to have tremendously troublesome times there can be no doubt but as I said we've really been having it anyway to expect anything horrible to occur in this next few hours I think is foolish I may be misinterpreting it because you see another things got them excited We're having an eclipse at 420 incidentally if you want to go watch the Sun you'll see it starting so we won't see the finish We're having an eclipse. The Sun is going to be eclipsed by the moon, which means that the moon is going to be between The earth and the Sun you see I mean it's going to cast its shadow and An eclipse has been looked upon by astrologers with the utmost horror if you want anything to make their hair stand on end just tell them and talk to them about an eclipse they think it's a terribly malevolent thing but the funny thing is it isn't it can be very disturbing and there are times when it can be very wonderful it can just bring a deepening that is you know it can darken one kind of you in order to brighten another view so it isn't necessarily malevolent at all nevertheless having such a tremendous conjunction mind you to call them off there would be the Sun the moon Mercury Venus Mars Jupiter and Saturn all together they're there now right now that's fantastic all together and on top of that an eclipse I mean that close do they come well certainly as you have heard me say say before right now there's the period of division taking place I personally think it will still go on for several incarnations but I may be wrong this aspect may be the real cutting off period entirely of those who are going to go forward and those who are not but this takes place inwardly inwardly in other words those who haven't evolved enough of the self-consciousness and enough of the yearning towards the brotherhood of man ideal.

These will inevitably be dropping back, though I think that they'll still be able to have another incarnation or two to try to make it. These will be dropping, but I'm not sure. These will be dropping back and have to wait for the next life wave, because during the Aquarian age, as this you can be sure of, this is the preparatory ground for what we consider the true brotherhood of man. And what is a true brotherhood of man it means that politically economically spiritually and with its ethics and in its laws and in its responses man is not trying to hit man over the head and get anywhere over his body but man knows and feels I am my brother's keeper and acts that way it doesn't mean you have to have perfected that by at all but your whole heart has to see it and feel it you have to be capable of that kind of activity instead of the kind of activity which brings betrayals and treachery for material gain not that there's anything wrong with material gain but it's a it can lead astray as we know so this is without question the intensification of the energies which are going to bring about this brotherhood of man whenever we're going to have something like that it is inevitable that they're going to be tremendous disturbances from your extreme right and your extreme left both you're going to have tremendous disturbances because there's no change that ever takes place that doesn't involve the destruction of one thing in order to bring the other so of course there's got there there will be certain destructive things that occur with nations with leaders but it isn't something at least from my point of view that happens all of a sudden today because the aspect came this is an ushering in of an energy and usually it takes about a year to see what the effects will be when you have an eclipse for instance so that in this next year we should see very unusual things taking place in the world and then we might even be able to see it it might be so subtle but this you could certainly know and I hope that you will accept it that the influx from our brothers beyond the solar system the influx of their help and energy has now and is now really in full force. Therefore the intensification of life for those who are capable of receiving it is going to be from amazingly accelerated. And if we work with it we'll recognize it. A lot of people don't. So I don't know whether I've helped you see the meaning behind planetary influences or not I hope so the one thing I did want you to recognize is that the planetary influence is not some effect upon us from something outside but it's a part of our own organism affecting us just like the bloodstream affects both all parts of the body and it's a part of our own livingness whether we say Mars is in conjunction with something else it's something that's taking place inside of us and we see it as a reflection in another way from the outside it's a mirror and the more we learn to live with the idea that we're a living part of the whole universe interrelated and interchanging you know in the inter and inter emanating livingness that the the reflection from what we might call Mars or Saturn of light is not something that hits us.

It goes through us, and there's something from us goes to it and all through it. The more we think of ourselves that way, the more will we be receiving the most positive parts of this particular aspect and helping ourselves to become more vital centers for ushering in and helping to usher in the true brotherhood of man, which is the big job of evolution at this time and means spiritual obtainment and capacity to be brother and sister you know so happy stars to you
