This morning we're going to talk about man's place in the Aquarian Age.

Of course, we've all been hearing about the Aquarian Age all our lives, and those of us who've been raised as skeptics, or born with a skeptical turn of mind, have thought that those people who talk about the Aquarian age on the whole at one time at least we must have thought this are either a little touched in the head or not very bright in any case perhaps we've credited them with being high-grade morons at the very best if we're kindly disposed in disposition and And this is understandable when we realize what a materialistic turn our science developed into for something like 50 to 75 years after it rebelled against the blind faith attitudes of the governments and religions of the previous time. So you know in evolution we usually seem to have a swing from one extreme to the other before the pendulum finally finds more of that happy back-and-forth medium like the clock seems to have it'll go like a seesaw and then finally develop some kind of balanced expression so it is true of course that for quite a few years any of the use of terminologies which would infer such things as astrological actuality was looked upon with great contempt.

Many, as a matter of fact most of the scientists, still feel this way.

Even those who have become very proud of their new science of astrophysics, which step by step is merely rediscovering on a very narrowed sphere fear that which the age-old knowledge of astrology has known through before recorded history as a matter of fact so at least we're making grade even if so many of our scientists still have this unthinking reaction to words it's a problem we all have as a matter of fact we react emotional emotionally to a word and actually that particular word may mean a different thing to each person and the result is we have a great deal of trouble in communicating with each other and many enmities develop many hurts are experienced as a result of our inability to understand what the other person means by a certain word we in other words we have become emotionally conditioned to an interpretation and we do this as individuals we do this as groups we do this as nations this is a matter of fact is still part of our previous age called the Piscean Age which we are now of course who we hope outgrowing and we'll try to explain just what is involved here those of you who are taking the tarot lessons at home should be familiar with tarot key number 18. now those who are not let me describe it to you and if you're taking it it will help bring the picture more vividly into your mind Tarot Key number 18 shows a pool and out of this pool is crawling something that looks like a crab at least it's an Eskrescian I hope I pronounced that right Eskrescian one of the higher evolutions beyond the lower forms of life which evolve in the waters in other words it's taking off on land then beyond that we see a wolf showing the wild very wild animal nature then beyond that is a dog showing more of the taming of this wild animal nature and all and all this is going along on a path a path leading upwards then we see a couple of towers with a gate showing the handiwork of man in other words human consciousness then is being indicated and beyond that we see a mountaintop showing the height of the evolution at least for a particular cycle now that particular Tarot key is assigned astrologically to Pisces and remember Pisces is the era or the cycle which we have just left as a planet and the the cycle or the era we have just entered into is Aquarius. Now the Tarot key that is assigned to Aquarius is Tarot key number 17. And in this Tarot key we also see a pool of water.

But in this case it's rather different. We see the nude figure of Mother Nature also indicating Venus. And never forget that any time we see Venus we're being told that love lives here.

So we have this nude figure of Venus holding two urns and she's pouring water from these urns. Water.

This, besides that, in the background we see seven stars indicating that the new age has to do with the firmament as well as the seven holy planets which exist within our own being. These are the chakras of the Eastern philosophy and these have to become alive and be brought into balanced relationship with each other in very special ways. So we have that indication along with others but we want to just bring out the highlights of these two tarot keys to show you what the Aquarian age actually means to man. And you can't know what it means to man unless you understand a little bit at least in relation to the thing man has just come out of and therefore has not really completely come out of at all. Because astrologically, you know, suppose a person is born and the very first signs of first degrees of a sign. It is very well known by those who've looked into it rather deeply that that person isn't completely the attributes of that sign at all.

That person doesn't express those characteristics as fully. They seem to have what you call a wash over. It's like water that washes over. You haven't got a sharp demarcation. It's more of a shading so that anyone who's born in the early degrees of any sign shows a great many of the characteristics of the previous sign and often will fool people and people will say well you don't seem to think or feel or act like this or that sign actually if they'd examine the previous sign and then mingle them they'd have more of an understanding well the same thing the same principle naturally exists in the largest spheres remember of course we've spoken to you before about some of the principles that are behind the idea of astrology we've pointed out to you that in as much as we are a part of the total universe there's nothing that goes on in the universe that does not affect us and similarly there's nothing that we do that does not affect the universe because the universe is either an entire, a whole organism, one expression. The entire universe is the garment of God, or it isn't. And of course we do ask you to go along, at least for the time being, with the premise that this it must be, because what else could it be? Could a typewriter manufacture itself? It takes a consciousness to to create anything and when we see the order in the heavens when we see the ritual that marches through space through the empty vastnesses of space in this extraordinary procession of order this a whirling motion and so on we have to attribute a creating intelligence to all that exists and certainly if we thought that we had come about by accident we would be showing what extraordinary lack of mentality we have and we should fall back not just only to the Piscean Age but before that in order to start developing a little more mentality to be able to have our share and our part more consciously with the procession of evolution as it's coming abound in mass. So you see the fact that we are and must consider ourselves a part of the universe, the fact that our consciousness can sweep out and see a star means that our consciousness has a contact with that star whether it be another universe or another nebula that took millions upon millions of years before the light reached us. We have still contacted that and therefore we are in touch with a consciousness which started to reach towards us millions of years ago. We are unified, we affect each other in all ways, past, present, future, in the higher levels of awareness, these stop having any meaning.

So as members of the universe affecting each other in these strange ways, we should realize that not the slightest thought, not the slightest emotion fails to affect the farthest star in space and vice versa. This, of course, we grow into recognizing as we work with the tarot daily, regularly, perseveringly to reshape our whole reaction to the nonsensical, materialistic responses that we make to life. Even those of us who are aspirants, you know, we do make these materialistic reactions. And these are the things we are working on retraining. Now then, the Piscean Age really is involved with this particular idea as is the Aquarian Age. just as the planets whirl around the Sun and are in a certain part of the heavens then which bring us our seasons and therefore different cycles and just as our scientists who are so proud of their very marvelous new discovery called astrophysics have noticed that people born in certain times of the year tend more to being, shall we say, introverted or extroverted, more outgoing scientifically, or more withdrawn mystically, and etc. Well, these are just a few of the things. More tendencies towards argumentativeness and fights, or less. All of these things they have been observing.

the relationship of the swing or the position the planet has in relation to the sun. But you see, this swing is not just because of the relationship to the sun. It's because we are receiving from the entire universe, all the stars of the universe, the impact of these cosmic rays at a particular angle and reaching us in these various angles. And so we are responding as we must, just as every organ in our body responds to the circulation of the blood, so do we respond to the livingness of the total life, the circulation of this cosmic fluid, which we may call the cosmic rays from one level of awareness, if we wish, and many other things.

so just like this occurs in our smaller cycle yearly cycle you might say in the same manner we want to keep in mind that the sun with its planets has its orbit in what we call the Milky Way around a center in this Milky Way and therefore there are the seasons and there are the divisions of the heaven we divide them merely because we need to think of them that way but actually from whatever part of the heavens just individualization particularization this is part and parcel of the universe in fact this is why the universe exists and this is why we exist so God can have unnumbered colors and garments and relationships and methods of being you could think of it that way and it is it is even more than an analogy so realizing that the our sun with its planets is going around this Milky Way and therefore receiving from the vastnesses of the heavens the slanting rays from different areas different positions of the heavens where it doesn't have to cross for instance the whole circle of the Milky Way when we're on one side of it we get it pretty direct or on the other side it's deflected through the slanting and bouncing you see from all the untold numbers of billions of stars in the milky way so we have an utterly different kind of impact as we move from the universe and this happens to be the season you might say of the sun just like the planet has its season well the entire an entire cycle is said to take place for the Sun every approximately 26,000 years we mentioned this to you before but we're going to bring in some other idea here and within this 26,000 years we have the two-year division just like we have the other type of division for the planetary circulations around the Sun this is the division of the Sun in relation to the nebula and its relation to the rest of the heavens Think therefore that so recently we had, and you all remember this excitement of this February 4th stellium, we had this extraordinary occurrence.

In other words, we had an aspect which had not taken place for 26,000 years or so, meaning we have entered a 26,000 year cycle. And at the same time, we also had this stellium and these forces take place. That is, the slant of the heavens and the position in relation to the earth was in relationship relationship to what the part of the heavens we call Aquarius. So it took place in what we call Aquarius. We therefore received a greater impact of whatever ideas we have in relation to Aquarius and we're going to take it up from the spiritual psychology which is the only thing we really are interested in in the final analysis, isn't it? So we had two things happen, not one thing, on this February 4th. and these two things have to do with an entirely new cycle or lift of the spiral whirling motion we have passed and yet we have not completely passed as i'll explain to you from pisces into aquarius because remember what i said about the overlapping it would have to be so nevertheless the real influx of force occurred there in pretty much this way when the sun is turning on its own I mean, don't take the analogy too far, but think of it. When the, no, when the planet is turning on its axis, you know, when it's time for the sun to rise, it doesn't, you don't suddenly see it. First there's the light, and you have the dawn getting brighter and brighter.

But there's always that moment when that first tip of sun comes up beyond the horizon, and you have that first slanting of the rays. well you can use the same analogy to realize what happened to us as in terms of the evolution of the whole planet at this February 4th stellium the twilight the dawning had already been taking place we're not sure how long perhaps 50 60 70 years certainly from approximately the time of the discovery of Uranus in the heavens because that's usually when these things occur you discover your new planet because consciousness is becoming ready to be influenced by it i don't know if you were aware of this but the principle resides there and so when people say well uh well how come astrology was correct before they knew there was a uranus or a neptune or a pluto uh the esoteric occultist can answer it could have been there but it was not yet influencing the consciousness in a self-conscious manner and it had to await a certain degree of evolution the overlapping therefore of Pisces is still there even though that first slant or first tip has come of the Sun has come over the horizon speaking merely in terms of analogy remind you so we have at the present time a very extraordinary overlapping of evolution on this planet. The Piscean Age had to do, Pisces is the ruler of water, you know, or rather it is a water sign. And of course since each age lasts approximately 2,100 years, we can see that Christ ushered in the Piscean Age. And remember, do you notice how much we have of these symbols that relate to fishes and water you know christ said i will make you a fisher of men you know cast your net in the waters i am the water of life there was this tremendous highlight and the loaves and the fishes again we have the miracle involved there it was the the the influx of the piscean age of the age of the promotion of conscious mysticism and conscious awareness of the emotional nature which was occurring during this 2,000 years now certainly not everyone has accomplished the full task of a Piscean age here's the point certainly not and certainly not Not everyone is receiving the full influx, as they should, of whatever impact is coming from the Aquarian Age.

Some of us are very mixed fish at this time.

Sort of like fish trying to live out of the water, and we haven't yet evolved away from being washed by the waters, so to speak. Now let's consider water. Remember in Tarot, water flows from the robe of the high priestess. and it symbolizes what? Consciousness. Therefore, when we think of the Piscean Age that we're just coming out of as symbolizing that age in which the emotions have been deepened and heightened and brought more to the mystical capacities, and when we think of Aquarius, which incidentally is an air sign, but even as an air sign being called the water bearer we can see that in the Aquarian age what we have to do is shape that water the urn whatever you pour water in it takes the shape of that cup that urn therefore the Aquarian age is to take this water of consciousness this emotional aspect of the nature and it is is love remember mother nature the venus figure love that is to do it and therefore to shape this water to control it to direct it with love for what everyone has known uh that uh the moment the aquarian age have spoken about almost simultaneously the next phrase that's used is for the brotherhood of man because certainly we know that one of the last things the piscean age could have shown us truly is a brotherhood of man. Look what has been occurring through this 2,000 years. Look how even in the name of religion man has gone out in his crusades to slay his fellow man and then he made a religion of economics and politics and that too has been a religion and has has gone out to slay his fellow man and try to destroy this extraordinary individuality and make him something that reacts like a school of fish which is something we should be evolving out of now from the piscean age rather than that unique individuality it's interesting that we when we consider the meanings of aquarius astrologically we have uranus ruling aquarius and one thing that's known about Uranus is that these, the Uranian types the Aquarian types, they're known to be very eccentric in fact sometimes they're so eccentric no one can stand them but you know we're not talking about extremes although so many people have a tendency to wash over to the extremes but we're talking about the quality forgetting the extreme of the eccentric type what we want to see then is that the courage and the ability to be an individual, not to be washed by the mass mind, by the waters of the previous evolution, by the unrealities.

Remember, Neptune is the ruler of Pisces, the previous age.

And Neptune on the lower plane denotes psychism, self-delusion, and illusion.

Though on the higher plane it is illumination, which naturally Jesus came to bring to these lower elements. It is illumination and higher mysticism. But very few people know how to react to that higher level yet. What they must do now is work with the forces of Aquarius to attain their full individuality from being pushed around by the lower aspects of this mass mind and this is your job and my job to become alertly aware through these forces that are pouring on us and incidentally if we don't do it consciously and deliberately we'll be knocked around we'll be forced to we'll be dashed against stone and there will be cataclysms definitely as part of the bringing about of the development for those who have the capacity at this point and as we pointed out not everyone really has the capacity for this higher Uranian or Aquarian evolution and those who do have the capacity if they are wise are going to aspire and work with their own nature as never before because with the influx of this stellium you might say in essence we've been told the time is not too long now before this life wave of the capacity and ability to be a true brother of man. I have someone who's still a very strong suffragette. I think she was a suffragette with me in the last incarnation, and she still hasn't gotten over it. And when she hears brotherhood of man, she gets very annoyed. She says, what about sisterhood of woman, you see? And she's very adorable about it though I think and she says why say brotherhood why not call it siblinghood because sibling means a brother or a sister and therefore it would not have there would be no idea involved about the male female differentiation as to a superiority or an inferiority but we might as well use the terms we have though I must say siblinghood is a very interesting invention for a term and covers the idea but this Brotherhood of Mad Men we have opportunities now and particularly in this next few years that are fantastic why because you see this stellium what people don't realize is this that the influx of these forces from the heavens that have taken place. It isn't something that happens on one day. There was a solar eclipse with it. It starts something that lasts a certain length of time. And therefore, the most intensive part of this energy certainly is going to be with us for at least a year from the time it started.

And very likely, very likely, we could be having it for 12 years. In other words, for the turns.

of a specific cycle of twelve, possibly. This we're not sure of yet. But it will be within our lifetimes. This you can be sure of. That we have extra health. In other words, whatever meditation we do, whatever aspiring we do, whatever we work for in order to heighten our consciousness, to transmute the previous emotional responses that go with the mass mind whatever we attempt to do during this period and consciously realize that we have help that is beyond what we've had before along with the techniques which are the channels for this help incidentally we will be able to do more with ourselves during this particular cycle than man has ever been able to do with himself in the recorded history of man because of what is coming at this point that is the preparation for a planet where a complete Brotherhood of man exists now we know that at this point we kick each other and step on each other every chance we get for financial gains to get the best of a bargain whatever it might be just imagine look how when we there are headlines and it says sale big sale you know prices below cost our hearts lift with joy and we run to the store and I don't blame us mind you in this economy what are you gonna do I mean I'm showing you the the mass mine at the moment and of course we can't help it at the moment and so we rush out if we need a dress or a suit or shoes or hat or purse or whatever and we rush out to pick up that almost hysterically but with a joyous hysteria and if there's anybody we like or love we'll get busy on the phone say did you hear you better go down and get this you can get it at this price the excitement the the it is fantastic and why Why? Because somebody is in trouble.

You see?

If they're really selling something below price of cost, doesn't it mean somebody is in trouble? Yet have we ever stopped to think of that? No. Because the whole race consciousness, when I say race consciousness, we're talking about the entire planet, is focused on this idea of getting a bargain, getting the best of the other fellow, whether it be getting the best of the other fellow in getting your man or getting your woman or getting your job or getting your money or getting your house or selling your real estate you know get in on the top floor and devil take the hindmost sort of thing this is the emotional response that the whole mass mind has brought over from the previous immaturities of evolution. But you see, in this Aquarian era, all this has to get transmuted out. Now, we must not get upset when we find ourselves reacting that way. I assure you that if I need something and I see there's a fail I certainly will run and buy the and get the bargain because I share the mass karma with all of us and income being what it is because we have not yet perfected our economic system with the preservation of the preciousness of the individual within it in our democracy so that the wherewithal is what it should be for all of humanity who deserves all things from its creator and therefore from each other all working for it naturally because of the situation we have i too naturally will run for that bargain i'm and we're all in the same trap but there's a difference between us and the mass mind our hearts see what's needed our minds our imagination that tarot key number 17 with that venus figure who remember also represents creative imagination lifts can lift the heart and see a world where all human beings have a democracy, a freedom, a sharing in the areas where they should share, a caring about what happens to the other fellow. I mean a caring. An emotion, and this is shaping it with the urn, the emotion, an emotion that says, I am my brother's keeper.

This is the difference between ourselves and the others, that our hearts can lift to that ideal and work for it, and know that because our hearts are lifting towards this ideal, seeing this picture for the future, for our children and our children's children, that we are building it. We are building it and we are bringing in the wherewithal by opening our radio sets sets of personality to the influx of the Aquarian forces on the positive side, on the positive side, not just for ourselves, but for all beings. And those who cannot receive that influx that we bring in and send out will drop by the wayside for a while and go into a little sleep and come back and start their journey in another life wave to accomplish that. but every one of you sitting here every one of you have a responsibility to God and to your fellow man because every thought and every emotion that you can bring to bear in the reception from the infinite we can call it the Aquarian energies if we want but isn't it the reception from the infinite from God from the love of the Creator for us to receive this in this special way. Every one of you has this responsibility because by your holding it you can be washing with the water of the urn the consciousness of the mass mind within which you reside because this is part of our total being.

and you can help bring others to that capacity those who just maybe need that slight little push or that slight little lift to get them up from the waters so they can float more freely in the air and breathe the air of the miraculous future that is ours here and now if we'll live it in our consciousness with this love so doesn't it make life worth living no matter what is wrong if we can realize that our thought and our love and our emotions can lift not one but maybe thousands of other living souls our brethren whom we have never met before of course this will happen only with those who've already achieved a certain level and we'll have to learn discrimination how not to waste our time and our energy with those who are going to be washed by the evils and there are terrible evils right now I mean we might as well admit it but to waste their time with those who are immersed in the materialistic sense-mad evils with the shallowness of heart and mind that in itself incidentally is blocking our radio of personality to the higher because we're banging against doors that are not haven't been built yet to be opened which is not good for that final thing and this is discrimination which is part of the necessary development due to the fact that Uranus, the ruler of Aquarius, is a higher octave of Mercury. And Mercury is the ruler of Gemini, which in tarot, through the lovers, shows the discriminatory faculty. So sitting at home, walking on the streets remember whenever you can looking at the stars remember what you are opening yourself to and strengthen it keep your radio tuned to the fact that you are open to the love of god to serve the influx of evolution for the brotherhood of man and in that manner little little by little, your higher soul will show you how you can become more of the divine eccentric of the Aquarian type by being truly individualized away from the influences of the lower to attain and retain and hold to the higher.

And never forget that the stars are your crown and your life just as well as the earth and the sun.

This morning...
