We're now going to try to explain to you what the esoteric teaching is and has always been regarding the power of the Word, that is, the Divine Name, and perhaps then some of the things that have puzzled you will be cleared up. I'm sure you're aware of the fact that all through the Bible there is continuous reference to the idea that he who knoweth my name or he who knoweth how to pronounce my name and so on and of course I think at least most of you are familiar with this particular tradition and that is that in the Temple of Solomon the priests used to get together and just at a special time of the year pronounce the holy name this is how they put it anyway in order to invoke the powers of that Almighty One and then also in the Bible we hear later on that the power or the knowledge of the proper pronunciation of this holy name was lost this incidentally is not really a correct translation in essence you see we have always had what we call the esoteric tradition that is that long chain of specialized spiritual schools of teaching and training for specially prepared initiates and it is these very few specially prepared initiates who down through every age through every generation have received the training that is said to have been lost to the world and they have received it in order to do what little they could to keep alive the certain energies the spiritual evolutionary energies of the world of humanity because of the evolutionary down cycle I suppose most of you are familiar with the way evolution usually runs it's like a spiral circle and therefore for a time all of humanity goes upward to a certain point then it starts to curve down and seems to have have lost its spirituality which is not really true it seems that way but motion continues and the next time the whirling circle comes up it will be a little higher than it was during the previous height and a time finally comes when the lowest low of a cycle is actually highest higher than the highest height of say several thousand years previously this is how it goes for humanity in general. However, for the individuals within humanity, we have always had those opportunities where this spiral circle could be, shall we say, intensified. We cannot avoid going through certain experiences because we cannot avoid passing stage eight in order to become stage nine. You can't suddenly become 16 years old say from having been five years old so that growth and evolution must be a continuous process however it can be speeded up in other words you whirl faster and sometimes I have said to our followers with my tongue-in-cheek of course this could be the reason why so So many people seem to be getting dizzier all the time, a whirling circle.

It's been going too much and too long, and some of us perhaps too fast, or so it seems at the moment. However, you see, this intensification, as we said, it doesn't eliminate any stage of spiritual growth or attainment. It does heighten or make us go faster, so things happen more rapidly. our ups and downs come more rapidly instead of say having 10-year cycles or cycles that go by incarnations they can come down so that we can have many cycles in one incarnation and make extraordinary grade towards attaining certain levels of conscious awareness and with these levels mind you the powers the spiritual powers which would naturally go with expanded consciousness so the schools of spiritual training this is what we call them for lack of a better term have never been without at least a few on the planet at any one time who have known and have handed on to their next of spiritual kin of these ways and means and this has continued right down to the present day in the last hundred years under instruction from those who know that is under instruction from those who have gone before us who have attained to far greater spiritual heights than even very highly evolved humanity in general have been gradually releasing more and more of the very secretly held esoteric knowledge of the various techniques not all but more and more and as most of you have heard me say the reason for this is that we have already approached a place in the evolution of humanity where there is at this time taking place a sort of division where those who reach a certain stage of spiritual awareness and response will go on for the attainment of a brotherhood of man here on earth. And those who remain with the very ridiculous, immature, nonsensical, materialistic orientation, you know, of laugh, sing, and be merry for tomorrow we die, and the whole competitive spirit of taking advantage of one's fellow man well all we have to do is look at most of the stories on TV to have an idea of the consciousness of a certain group of humanity at this time which has always been but at any rate now the influx of souls who have been incarnating has increased to an extraordinary degree and this can be seen in the population of the world the The reason for this, as we said, as we have been given it by those who have reason to know, is because of this division taking place.

And naturally every soul who is spiritually oriented is working extra hard, unconsciously, but the superconscious knows, extra hard, in order to not only make sure that they go on and help bring about this perfection that Jesus spoke about, but to help lift everyone possible who might be shall we say on the borderline of their consciousness because the more of us who can start exercising spiritual power and holding to spiritual mental emotional levels the more we will be influencing what we call the mass mind so that many untold thousands who might have remained materialistically oriented will feel swept upon a wave of aspiration without knowing why. People we, without question, have never even met. It's like radio broadcasts going out, and those who have that special tune in will be picking it up. therefore because of this it has been decided that for the first time in open temple mind you notice we say in open temple because in our esoteric work the chapter which is the present day mystery school training center where we have in our keeping the very intensive spiritual training methods and those various elements which develop the powers.

In Open Temple it has been decided to give a portion, naturally not all, but a portion of the techniques which have to do with intonation, that is the use of vibratory sound in order to heighten our entire consciousness to help ourselves spiritually and physically because automatically, incidentally, physical healing will follow. certain stimulus or vibrational stimulus that has to do with a higher levels of the consciousness this then we are at least going to do partially through the month of may and it is our hope that we will receive instructions in this in the fall to give a thursday evening and repeated monday afternoon class on color and sound which we gave once before last year Sunday mornings but we gave just one aspect of it it is our hope that we will be instructed to give far more detailed instruction for the use of the correlations of color and sound in order to attain the awakenings of what are called by our eastern brethren the chakras by us in the western tradition the the holy planetary centers.

And so we very likely will have that for the future. Meanwhile, we will give what we can in terms of the vibratory principles involved, and then I will demonstrate to you how you may use it in order to help yourselves and those near and dear to you.

Now, what is the principle behind the use of vibratory sound. Those of you who have read any of the Eastern philosophies certainly have heard of mantra yoga and you know in most of the Eastern school of thought they at some point or other will end with the mantra and this is a vibrational power that they are using of the ummm and some have different ways of utilizing it but on the whole it goes pretty much like this and I'll demonstrate it to you because some of you may never have attended some lecture by an Eastern teacher who gives this and therefore it goes in essence like this first of all one has to take a very deep breath and it has to be done on one breath then the the chant has to come you have to train yourself to do it incidentally some people pick it up readily within a few weeks where they really get the power going and with some it takes many months it depends on you how soon you can develop the use of the power i've known some people who've worked at it half-heartedly for years then all of a sudden awakened to the fact that they haven't been working at it properly and the most fantastic and marvelous things have happened to them spiritually so you see you must never get discouraged. It's a matter of catching on to a certain essence of usage. Anyway, in order to demonstrate to you, because I said some of you may not be familiar with the this particular part of what is called really the power of vibration. The um really is a-u-m and actually therefore has two syllables even though it's referred to as um. And then watch me take the deep breath and I will try to intone the smog is not going to help this very much but did you notice the vibration involved well you see also did you notice if you've heard it before that what you've missed most of the time is the vibration.

And those of you who have been elsewhere will notice this immediately because many teachers of occultism, even though they know of the principle, and that is the idea that you repeat something like um, they have never really been taught because they have not had the advantage of the true esoteric trainings, of being trained in the actual power of vibrating the sound and therefore getting something into action, which is fantastically more than would appear on the surface. Now you see, in the Eastern thought, this special idea is called mantra yoga. I don't remember whether I mentioned this. Mantra yoga. And therefore, in the training which disciples get in the East, only those who have gone off to monasteries and have retired from the world are ever given the really potent types of mantra here in the Western world some teachers who have come to try to gain disciples for the Eastern teachings have given out one or two things like money pod me whom they will often vibrate that which is a lovely thing but incidentally doesn't even begin to do for us what the Western methods would do, mainly because first of all we're born in a Western body into a Western culture, because we are like a radio that's tuned in to the whole spiritual training of the Western mystery schools, whether we're aware of it or not, although many of us and perhaps even most of us have had long periods at the beginning in Eastern thought. I know I I was very much involved in Buddhism in my earliest years of occult research and training.

But the powers that be certainly had no intention of letting me remain in something which was just a partial type of teaching and not in accordance fully with what can be accomplished and is meant to be accomplished. and that is the development of that which we've been promised by Jesus himself, whether we want to believe in him or not. The promises could be said to have an esoteric significance in any case. So the power you see of vibration, which in the Western school of thought really is called by a double term we call it the intonational powers of color and sound but during this month of may we're only going to use the sound aspects because we couldn't even begin to cover the color elements that go with it and they have to do with other parts of learning how how to awaken your own centers, your own powers, and how to use these powers for the heightening of your entire awareness, as well as the perfecting and balancing of your physical vehicle.

Now, the Bible tells us, as you remember, in the New Testament, I believe it's in John, that in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. this word also says a little later on this life was the light of man or this light was the life of man now you see in the idea of knowing how to pronounce the holy divine name the idea of knowing what is meant by the word really has to do with knowing what is creation itself in essence And so in the holy Qabalah, which incidentally is the oldest esoteric mystical spiritual school training system that exists on this planet and indeed all other schools of metaphysical thought Wonderful indeed and helpful are various aspects of the Qabalistic training Which has all the elements like though like in yoga, you know you hear of of jnana yoga, the yoga of wisdom, raja yoga, the yoga of research, bhakti yoga, the yoga of love.

Then there's the mantra yoga, the use of the vibrations and so on. Hatha yoga, the use of development of certain powers over the physical body, as well as karma yoga. These are all ways of approach to liberation. Well, the Qabalah synthesizes all these approaches. And one of the most important things to use in this synthesis is the power of vibration. You see, we have reached a point in our evolution, those of us who are truly a deep aspirant in the West, that is in the Western cultures, we have reached a point in our evolution where we need to synthesize. If there can be no question that in past incarnations we've already studied many of the different parts, whether we have conscious recollection of this or not. And so we come to a point where we need this synthesis, which means becoming truly whole. And to become truly whole is to become consciously at one with God, or the Father, or the Lord of life, or whatever term you want to give it. Now in the Qabalah, the first emanation, the whole Tree of Life, is said to be the ten emanations.

and these are really the ten vibratory living aspects of God which in essence makes the universe on all levels from the innermost and spiritual to the most outer, physical or you might even call it the fruit of this tree of life.

And the first divine emanation is given many terms in order to train us to have a specific idea And these terms have to do with beginnings. In other words, it's called the beginning of the whirlings, showing that the Qabalists knew even back untold numbers of thousands of years ago that the whole universe, both the starry skies as well as the atomic structures, are made up out of whirlings, the beginning of the whirlings. And to that beginning has been given names like the Indivisible, the One. but here is the point this one this indivisible is given a divine name each of these forces or vibratory aspects of the divine creation has what is called a divine name it also incidentally has uh what is called the angelic um level for that divine name that we will take up in one of the Sunday morning talks this month. We will explain to you all about the reasons for this use of the word angels, what it really implies, and how to use these forces which could without any question at all be called the living messengers of God in certain sense, but not in the way most people have thought. However, this morning we must deal only with the first aspect so that we can get that clearly and that is the fact that each of these emanations of the one the creator the lord of life have assigned to them a divine name now actually this divine name is just in essence a method of vibrating certain sounds in order to tune in to that vibrational level just like when when we take the radio and put it on a certain number, we're going to tune into a special station.

Each of these divine names, as they are called, really, in essence, are what we might call a vibrating call for tune-in in order to get our vibrations linked so that we can become conscious of that level of divinity and therefore experience ourselves as it and receive and exercise the powers with that particular level of divinity. So we may say that each of these emanations of the one Lord of Life have different divine names, but they are the one name. They are merely the different vibrations that have to do with the one idea. So this first divine name from this beginning, if we just wrote it out, would be called a Heia. Now remember, in the ancient Sanskrit, which Hebrew comes from, the use of certain letters to make and vibrate certain sounds were deliberately organized and therefore formed into what became a written structure, which is different than other languages that we know. In other words, the knowledge of the power of certain sounds was known, and then certain symbols were given, and these symbols became the letters of the Hebrew alphabet, which before that was called the flame alphabet, and came from the Aramaic and other elements of the mystery spiritual training schools.

So keep in mind that when we mention to you the divine name, the real idea is that there is a way to tune in to a level of divinity by training ourselves to vibrate in harmony with this level. And don't forget that even modern science has now discovered that everything, everything, from the most so-called physical object to the most so-called subtle object is in a state of vibrating motion.

And naturally, this has been known to those who have attained full mastership. And naturally, they have known how to utilize it. And as a matter of fact, it is because of this knowledge, it is this very principle, that the Divine One, shall we call him now a Haya, as one of the terms, this Divine One, in essence, in thinking, in starting a motion of consciousness for creation, did what? this is the word the word which is the light of man so we are dealing with the very essence of the beginnings of creation when we are dealing with the use of vibrations and learning what they mean and training our consciousness to hold the thought and to hold the idea and the powers that follow are fantastic beyond description when we learn how to retrain our thinking feeling processes to harmonize with this vibration and by using the vibration we receive help from levels we were not able to reach before.

And this is the great advantage amongst many other advantages of this knowledge. Now, therefore, as we said, the idea of a heya. Now, what does a heya mean? All I did is give you the sound as we were talking it, but that isn't the real sound as you'll see. because I'm going to show you how it's pronounced in terms of its esoteric wisdom.

In Exodus, if you will remember, when Moses was contacted by the flaming bush or through the flaming bush by the voice of God, you remember what he was told? Say that I am hath sent you. Well, that is exactly what aheia means, I am, and that is exactly what was indicated and what is I am I am is the one and the only you are an aspect of that I am I am is everything that could ever be it has to be because what else could there be but the divine creating within the substance through the motion of its own consciousness and and its own self-knowing. So I am is actually an English transliteration, and many of you have been told to meditate on I am, and most of you have found you don't seem to get very far with this meditation on I am. It's abstract. It's very abstract. Well, there are many reasons.

In dealing with anything abstract, we've got to have symbols. That's one of the reasons our work, again, coming through this very age-old system, deals with symbols to help you to hold on to something in order to attain your powers, your your awarenesses, and following from that your healing. So when we just say I am, all we have is an abstract idea. But if we meditate then on the word that it actually comes from, which has been translated, don't forget, through Aramaic, through Hebrew, through Greek, through Latin, into English. You know, it's quite a bit of motions most of it is made. If we then work with it from its original sound, that's when we get the power. That's when meditating on I am starts to have some meaning. however to just vibrate a sound without meditating on the significance of it isn't going to be a good idea either because we are conscious beings and we have to use our conscious mind in order to connect ourselves with the vibration of an actual awareness so therefore when when we will vibrate this divine name for the beginning of beginnings that which is indivisible which is the one of which we are all a part we want to remember that that is what we are intoning that we are announcing to ourselves when we vibrate ahea I am I am one with all that ever was is or will be because that's all that exists the indivisible therefore i am a part of the creator of the universe i am a part of the perfection of that consciousness and this incidentally is what real healing uh involves most of the metaphysical methods of healing which go about trying to see uh merely the perfection of the body which is a good idea at least it's doing something and it's using some metaphysical force most of these methods as we have found work sometimes and most of the time they don't and we get worried and we wonder why well of course the reason for it is that whatever inner balance or vibration of the inner etheric and psychic parts of our nature these parts have to get into a vibratory balance with the higher spiritual self which is at one with aheya the eternal indivisible i am in order for the fullness of healing to really pour through and therefore using vibration especially when it's also combined with color which we will cover a little bit in this month's series, but mostly that will take quite a good long class to train you in that. But at any rate, the idea of getting these aspects into a vibratory balance with each other, this is what brings in an influx of a healing, which is from within out, don't you see, and has to do, therefore, with the highest and the most potent of healings.

You know, it's been found, for instance, under hypnosis that if somebody smokes too much and they're given the hypnotic suggestion not to smoke, it's been found that most of them then will go off to something like drinking too much. So they'll become alcoholics. And suppose they're put under hypnosis and, again, they're given the suggestion that they don't want to drink alcohol anymore. So if the suggestion works, they'll stop becoming alcoholics, but they'll become drug addicts. Do you see what I mean? In other words, the complete healing has to come from within the inner, finer vehicles in order to be a complete from the most within out. Otherwise, when we work with the other ways, we work from the without in, we do very often and sometimes extraordinarily often get certain results, but then something else breaks out and something else and we're not really becoming whole. This is the difference between using the methods of the real esoteric powers and those that have to do more with the very partial disclosures and the partial knowledge which comes from the elementary schools of metaphysics.

but we're going to start you off now with the first idea actually we're going to give you at least two and maybe three divine names this morning because you see next week next sunday morning we want to bring out and show you how certain of the divine names definitely originally were meant to indicate the feminine cosmic potencies of god and the powers and what they mean and one of the reasons we have as many problems as we do with attaining and reaching and receiving certain of the vibratory intensifications because we're trying to reach to just half of god in other words it's almost like we've locked away the feminine portion of god which qabalah and the inner mystery training schools have never done so we must understand this principle of gender of the male and the female and the uses and the holy names involved to get even and more potent elements involved. And so I was very pleased when I discovered that it would be Mother's Day next Sunday for that particular aspect because we certainly have been begotten of the Divine Mother and Father.

Never think otherwise. Let's then go to the exercise and the understanding of this I Am. We've pointed out to you, just at least as a beginning, through this month we'll give you more and more of the details of how to use the meditation with the vibrational powers.

But this ahaya, which is the I am, the indivisible, the beginning, the one, the one and one alone in whom we live and move and have our being. If we can have the organ for a moment, dear, I would like you...

Actually, there's two ways to intone it. One has the notes, and very few people can use the notes to begin with. They have to learn how to vibrate first by just picking whatever one note their intuition will take.

As you noticed, I did, for instance, with the um.

But I want you to hear the higher element of it and the usage, and then you'll start to understand a little more about the power of different sounds. So I want you to hear the different notes that are involved because they have a definite melody, every one of them, and these melodies are not haphazard. they have to do with what the color is in relation to the Hebrew letter and the sign of the zodiac and the planet in other words it's really getting ourselves vibrating with the universe in its most emanating light elements into its most innermost essences because wherever we see the light emanating there we know the word of God is vibrating or it wouldn't be there you see it wouldn't be there nor would you be here if the word of God wasn't vibrating you incidentally. So you see it's a pretty marvelous thing to realize. I'm going to give you the melody which is not a haphazard thing. It has rules, it has laws, each of these things do, which we teach to anyone who will prepare themselves for this reception. It has to do with first preparing by learning these various phases that are necessary to get like first you have to know arithmetic before you can do algebra you have to know algebra before you can do certain types of geometry you have to know that before you can go into higher calculus and that's the only reason it is necessary that our aspirants prepare themselves because in order to give you all the elements you have to first learn what it's about so you can mix the chemicals and make your compound isn't that right?

And this is the only thing that holds people away. They're lazy. I don't blame them believe me I think it's much nicer to sit and look at the sun and listen to a bird sing but it doesn't we've got to learn to take time to do our spiritual exercises too would you play the four notes that I gave you on that slip of paper for the ahea I am and then I will show you how it is in its highest sense then I will show you how you can do it to start its usage at this time.

Right now, would you start that again? Now I will...

That's smudged.

I didn't go to deep enough breath.

AH AH Now this is tuning oneself in. How many of you felt certain vibrations hit you? Raise your hand. Very good. That's fine. If you heard it regularly or if you regularly participated with us in the Qabalistic chant, which we'll take off up later you would eventually all become aware of the various vibrations because that's what starts to shake the lower elements of the body i mean the lower uh mass mind the the more gross parts this vibrates them out you see this chanting something that is a scientific thing believe me it is no superstitious nonsense it's truly scientific and vibrating uh with this feeling of reverence of aspiration with this uh announcement it's like a yearning call and an announcement at the same time you know this is really calling out i am thou art and i am because cause thou art is what we're saying in essence and therefore awakening through this vibration this conscious awareness which will suddenly flash in sometimes very shortly after we start practicing it sometimes years everyone varies or sometimes it'll come in different portions but it is it is this pronouncement incidentally with this feeling of the perfection and miracle of that I am which is the one of all of us which brings the most extraordinary of the miracle healings on the physical plane incidentally that was involved those of you who haven't seen it yet you'll notice the little dog folder there as I said to be sure to take our literature it'll tell you more about our work and that's the documentation the scientific documentation on the instantaneous healing of a little dog I had who's now in heaven on the astral plane.

She lived to a ripe 15 and a half years old. So it was time, though I didn't like the idea of it being time. Still God seems to overlook my preferences once in a while, I noticed. And I kind of like him, you see, so we get along anyway. But I wasn't very happy about having to let Sadi go, though I knew she needed to go. But, you see, she developed a tumor, a horrible tumor, in her mouth. And it was something that was fantastically ugly and miserable to behold. We had veterinarian service. We had people who saw it. The story is in the... The partial story is in the folder, so I needn't bother to tell you that. But when I did this special work for her, you see, she was so open to me.

and she was being uh she had lived so closely to me that my uh inner work she uh she received it without the blockages which so many people do and you have to keep working and working to melt down you vibrate the blockages away from them incidentally this is one of the secrets you want to keep in mind because we all have blocks of different patterns and it is learning how to vibrate the divine names and the angelic forces and invocation which will take up later that helps to melt off these blocks well my little dog didn't have any blocks he kind of thought i was all right and uh you know it was mutual so i had definitely gone in for a certain special ritual in which i vibrated not one not only the divine name but the angelic names which I'll give you on that week and then felt that complete miracle of I am of which Sari was also a part but living creature is not a part of this divine one the I am and so this perfection and miracle which I had been able to lift myself to with this work was in me and as I held her it was in her because I held her with me and you see when I woke up it was gone it was an instantaneous disappearance because there was no blockage at all some other things sometimes take a little longer and it varies with different people so keep in mind that learning how to use the vibratory powers is a very important part of attaining to every level of spiritual unfoldment and even of course various psychic powers develop though we always try to point you to the spiritual levels because they're the most important and we don't want to be allured away with psychic phenomena we want to attain the highest in order to be able to practice and emanate the highest for ourselves and others therefore the vibrator vibrating out of these elements is involved of the blockages now the way because you haven't yet had the training that is involved with knowing the melody as yet i would probably will give all of those details i hope that i've been speaking to you about today in the course if I'm permitted to give that as full a course in the fall but for now this is powerful and think don't think otherwise the way we do it then thought you know a lot of people can't even hold a tone and would you say about them well are they doomed you bet not nobody is doomed so what you want to do is take a note that is easy for you and intone it on one note something like this you heard I did it with its actual various melody notes you can do it this way deep breaths see the power is there so you're not really losing the power you you perhaps perhaps lose a little something with the melody because something else is involved there with the bringing in of color but you're still getting the power you're vibrating that divine I am therefore I would advise you if you have a little pencil and paper to write down that name just as it sounds to you don't worry about anything else realizing that is the original word used in the Bible when it says I am that is the one and so write it down in whatever way it sounds to you that it should be pronounced actually when we transliterate it we usually you know for just saying it ahea we use these e h e i e h we figure that gives the easiest way for you to remember how to pronounce it you know e h and the h is a hey and then the e i but if you want to put put A and then put a long line over it to show because it's very important incidentally to have the correct pronunciation that is vital because every syllable has a special vibratory sound of its own as well as every note and especially since you're not using the melody it's that much more important that you know have each syllable exactly right so it's ah like A-H or no actually it's more like eh like it's a between thing uh it's not eh and it's not ah it's an in-between which you can practice uh hey yeah you know like ya at the end but uh but the the you don't want to say yay or yeah you see yeah maybe why you would be the best way so you to make sure you remember the pronunciation correctly uh hey yeah like that and it isn't a complete uh for you again it's a sort of like in between so now I'm going to again intone it and then try you try it with me after I show you once more right I saw it just on the one note then which you will have to be utilizing I think.

Now remember, you've got to take a deep breath and do it from your solar plexus. You'll catch on. Then once you catch on, as you practice it, you'll strengthen that muscle there and the psychic center, by the way. You'll strengthen that also as you work with it. So try to make the sound come from your solar plexus as though you're starting it from there And then reach up in order to get the vibratory part of it developed in yourselves As we said it takes time to develop that but it was we do it together The fact that some of us already have it because you see some of us are already in chapter here In different grades you have the advantage of some being present here who already have been trained in vibratory methods and so you can help copy and joining them joining together like that you should do better when you practice it at home so now remember the deep breath and you have to draw it out this is also a what might be called breath control you know but it's a safe breath control with a development of power now deep breath very good anybody get busy sometimes people get a little dizzy because they're not accustomed to the uh rapid vibration and the extra oxygenation but that passes off that don't let that worry you if you uh if you get a little dizzy and but it's usually a sort of pleasant dizziness incidentally which is a little better than most kind of dizziness isn't that right so i mean i'm just warning you about that that's not dangerous it won't hurt you and don't overdo it now when you're going to do this in toning never do it for longer than five minutes at a time remember five minutes limit you can do it several times a day if you wish never more than five minutes now here's another point to remember always intone the divine name before you do any work for healing for anybody because you are announcing something you are making a potent declaration you are vibrating this element in an extraordinary way also if you're working specially for somebody else's healing you can hold them within you mentally emotionally Emotionally spiritually while you're intoning the divine name in other words like you're announcing to their spirit That they are the perfect part of the indivisible the one the I am so you are trying to help them from the within out and And help them then to break down the various blocks That hold us in various unbalanced states mentally emotionally and health wise Which incidentally doesn't mean that a person is bad or evil plenty of people who are very unevolved can be very physically healthy it's just that they're on a certain cycle and they haven't had the intensifications and therefore the the um the delicacy the development of the delicacies of the nervous system uh which have to do with the finer vibrations yet and then others can be very spiritually uh have attained spiritually and be healthy so never mix health a healthy body up with how high a spiritual level anyone has attained this i i plead with you to do because too many people in occultism have a tendency to think that somebody is just oh all negative and bad or evil because they're suffering some physical problem and it isn't true at all they could be going through some particular deepening or test and they can be they're being pounded with vibrations in order to strengthen certain elements of the nature which other people might even begin to stand under and so you see there are various reasons for this nevertheless working with the vibratory powers helps to overcome these problems much more readily to not only intensify our own system but to develop the controls to get tuned in to what we require for uh getting that balanced state on the different levels now we've gone of course quite over the usual length of time for the talk and yet i wanted to give you one other divine name so do you mind if we'll be a little over because certainly you should have the real meaning of jehovah uh that's just as important as the ahea only it will keep you about 15 20 minutes longer in church you would have been otherwise all right now i've already given the explanations Now here's the point. In the Bible you often read Jehovah, Jehovah, Jehovah all over the place.

In actuality that is never the way it was supposed to be and it's not the correct pronunciation. Now Jehovah is another way of utilizing the divine name of God which includes all the powers of the whole tree. You see with Ahayah we're announcing our oneness with the essential beginning and the I am-ness. with Yod-Heh-Vav-Heh which most of you have heard me just say we are using what are the letters of the powers of the divine name which incidentally when the those parts were read by the Jewish people in ancient times whenever they'd come to these four letters they never said Jehovah they always passed over it silently or they gave the name of Adonai in place of it but I'll have to give you the Adonai next week tie it in with the mother powers which incidentally it may surprise you to know it's involved with you've always you've heard Adonai Lord and he and actually believe it or not well that's for next week let's get Yod-Heh-Lav-Heh all right so Yod-Heh-Lav-Heh is means that which was that which will that which is that which will be this is the literal meaning of it in its original therefore it means existence on all levels it's tied up therefore with the idea of i am more with the idea of to be because existence is a to be it's a it's put something into motion so that when we in tone when we make it intonation we make it walk so other word wise you call it in the alphabet bit when we in turn that we're making another announcement similar to the first and yet it has a subtle difference which is very important for us to work with therefore we always want to use both we don't want to just use the one the i am we want to begin with the ahea but we always want to finish with the yod hey la hay or if we begin with the old haylar hey we want to finish with a haya we can just use our own mood or go back and forth because yod-heh-vav-heh remember it means all the powers of the ten sefirah therefore it means the complete balanced beingness of all your vehicles all your vehicles of that which was that is balancing off everything that you have ever been that which is that which you are and that which you're going to be so it sets the whole every bit of your vehicles your most outer to your most inner into a vibration for balancing itself within itself in order to be able to express all the various powers and again also to be able to announce that it is god and god alone with the idea of jehovah god and god alone as the father because this also is tied up with ideas of the father who is responsible for all that was all all it is and all that will be and therefore we're opening ourselves to the healing of the father of the all pervading powers from all the levels or sefirah or emanations so i will show you how it is intoned in its melody so that you could have that advantage and then we will do it for the rest of us together on the one note. Could I have the...

Again.

Again.

YOL HE WA HE Isn't that something? Are you getting the powers? I can notice more of you are reacting now. All right, now then, let's do it on one note to show you that the power is there also so you don't have to worry. Right. Yod-Hei-Wah-Hei Again. again.

Yor Heiwa Hei.

Now remember, the principle is all things are from God. Whatever work we do, we start with God. Whatever healing we're going to do, who should we call to except God and we call to God in the language of God the language of vibration to tune in to that which was is and will be by announcing it to every atom of our being from the most within to the most without I think that we've had enough for our first lesson next Sunday morning we'll have the next and now we'll proceed with our service
