So our topic is Divine Aspect of the Cosmic Mother for Healing. Although we're still dealing with the same subject for the month, that is the powers of intonation. Still, no intonation can have meaning without the meaning we put into it, that is the understanding we have in relation to the principles that we use. Because always remembering that the power of the word is the power of thought, and the actual spoken word or sound is the vibrational outpouring of that basic, primitive thought from its very beginning, the spoken word therefore being one of its finished aspects. We want to realize that although we're dealing with the power of intonation, the proper usage has to do with being able to hold very firm thoughts while the intonational powers are being utilized. and of course remembering also that the use of intonation the vibration of sound is meant to intensify the power of that thought in other words to drive it more deeply to drive it with more fire to quicken and to hasten its effects giving you might say extra gasoline or perhaps extra cylinders to a motor her. I don't know if that's a good analogy. You boys would know better than I do, but it seemed like that would make a good analogy for this particular idea. Now then, in relation to the cosmic mother, I wonder how many of us are aware of the fact that perhaps one of the greatest tragedies that has ever befallen civilization is the tragedy of the mistranslation of the scriptures and truly I speak profound truth here I mean there's a reality beyond anything I can even begin to describe and the The mistranslations, I hope you realize, have come about because of the fact that those who did the translating were not Qabalists, inasmuch as it is the trained Qabalists who have been the ones who actually gave the real teachings which the Holy Scriptures have, and actually they are a mixture, you know, of history and profound esoteric teaching and training.

and only a Qabalist incidentally knows which is which again because of the mistranslations now why is it that only a Qabalist would know why is it we say the Qabalist wrote it because Qabalah is the esoteric wisdom of Israel and this has been the hidden mystery teaching down through the ages before we even had the written word so to speak when it was still very oral, the tradition taught from mouth to ear, the groups and the mystery schools trained. It has been in the Qabalistic tradition they have been trained. And those who have been the prophets are those who were trained in these mysteries.

They therefore used language very carefully, very carefully indeed, which we must learn to do, by the way.

And if the translators, when you consider how many tongues it has gone into since its original Aramaic, and then Hebrew, then Greek, and Latin, finally English, when you realize how many tongues it's gone through, and that even the original translators, not being Qabalists, just chose a word that seemed right to them, you can see that many of the most profound truths could easily have been lost and they have been and the most vital one relates to the female aspect of God the female aspect of God is not a nice thing to talk about on Mother's Day now we often wonder why we don't make better grade on the path of return well do you know genetically for so many thousands of years as well as which is as well as the historical elements involved culturally the use of language the attitude therefore that is inculcated with the mother's milk perhaps even while still in the womb into both men and women is such that there is a complete unawareness of the significance significance of male and female, he and she, often called positive and negative, or the opposite, the law of opposites.

There really is no true significance, no true understanding relates at all. And real intensive grade on the path of return has to do not only with understanding this particular phase but doing something about our patterns the conditionings that we have residing within our hearts our souls our emotions our thoughts in relation to these misunderstandings of course you know the most often quoted allegory from the bible is the fact that eve caused all the trouble you know she listened to that old serpent and tempted Adam to eat of that apple and then all well we might just as well say because it seems like it all hell really broke loose didn't it so it seems like man has been in a hell ever since man and woman naturally now even here notice the use of the term for humanity is what uh has developed in the culture man now i have a friend who's very emotional about this sort of thing. She gets very upset over the fact that humanity is called man and so on. She has some good thinking behind her in this by the way, except that when we're fanatical about anything it's not good.

It interferes with proper understanding of the question. So of course, certainly I'm sure every one of you men here, bless your hearts, with the conditioning you have had, have at least at times moaned and groaned about why are women like they are and you know women do this and women do that and perhaps some fun with a little undercurrent of subconscious meaning what you're saying, saying hmm, Eve and Eve and the story of Eve indicates all of this this problem area so man complains and sighs oft we acknowledge on the other hand of course we also have woman sighing just as hard so we will acknowledge reality. A woman sighs just as hard and she moans and groans and says, oh men, and why can't they see this and why can't they see that? And you have to treat them like this or that or the other. I won't mention to you boys just what it is they say. Might give you ammunition. And we don't want ammunition today today we want a feeling of an outpouring of understanding and love at least to get started something that comes from the profound depth of the soul rather than the surface or temporary feelings that might come so let's consider now in genesis i very strongly recommend that you pull out your Bible today or any day time soon before you forget this you'll notice that in Genesis there are two descriptions of the creation of man in the first chapter of Genesis it says when it gets to that portion it says and And God said, let us, I repeat, us.

You hear that, boys and girls?

Us.

Let us make man in our, our image. After our likeness. And let them, plural, have dominion, etc. Have you ever noticed that? Or has it just skipped your attention entirely?

However, we come to the second description of creation in Genesis, and there they give us a lot of Lord God, and we have all the descriptions of there was no man, and then there was the dust of the ground, and the Lord God breathed the Spirit into him, which again is part of an allegory. on another level incidentally on a level of more of the manifesting aspect of the creation of let us not say man at the moment this is mother's day let's say the creation of woman you know after all would it annoy you men woman uses the both man and the w-o in front of it so actually it would include both sexes wouldn't it but oh we'd have terrible emotional disturbances I'm afraid we'll have to throw this thought out and I'm only teasing you anyway so you see uh when the story of Genesis is mentioned I wonder why it hasn't been noticed or why we don't get as much mention.

And from now on, I hope you'll mention it all over the place, wherever you go. Tell them where you got this particular teaching and description and invite them to come and hear more about it in order to rid themselves, these friends and acquaintances and aspirants you meet, of the thing that is the most serious drawback on the path and creates the greatest illness that exists, the illness that comes from the very source of our life. We wonder what causes sickness. Well, we're not finished beings. God is still breathing the breath of the Spirit into our nostrils, truly.

On the other hand, we do have to understand from the depth of our souls what it is that's creating, what it is that is the Creator in order to permit a true balance to start developing between the polarities of our own being for a wholeness in the body. As we mentioned last Sunday morning, there are healings that can take place and do and we work with them as much as we can also. That helps to alleviate some condition where people think I am cured. You know sometimes it's a very serious physical condition where they may think i am cured on the other hand as long as these sicknesses stem from an illness in the soul an unbalance of response to what god really is something new will break out and something new will break out both in the environment and in the body so true healing has to come from the deepest roots of our being let's discuss that now then what the Qabalah teaches about and has always taught and what the Bible really meant written by Qabalists but was mistranslated and lost in relation to the female aspects of God and creation the Elo actually when the Bible says and God said that is not correct anyone who wants to can go and check with the original Hebrew and Aramaic texts which exist it is not and God said let us make man it's and the Elohim said let us make man the Elohim you want to write that down because we're going to intone that later on e-l-o-h-i-m the Elohim. Now what does the Elohim mean? Remember last Sunday morning we spoke about the source of all life, that which is the one, the indivisible, and also we spoke about that which is the whole tree of life, that which is its fullest manifestation, and the one and the indivisible, that which is the beginning of all things, the beginning of the whirling. We told I told you this is called a heya, which means I am.

And remember, I am doesn't mean he.

I am means I am.

And the point is now, on this Mother's Day, let's understand this very carefully. When I am, the one, the indivisible, starts a process of motion of its own mental substance, which is its own self-contemplation, which is the beginning of the whirling that casts out nebulas and makes stars and electrons, casts them out all over the place, when it looks into itself, it sees the two aspects of itself.

And those two aspects are the cosmic father and the cosmic mother.

The cosmic father and the cosmic mother. therefore it sees that it has these two forms of energy it is he she God is not he God is not he God is he she now we go to the Elohim the first tabalistically because we can't go into the details of the teaching of how the the outpourings develop and abhor and manifest therefore through a state of being or consciousness of the contemplation of god into the first outpouring expresses itself as this life and energy this propulsive dynamic force which we call the masculine principle of life but the masculine principle of life this dynamic force goes all over the place there's no discipline in it on the cosmic scale at all except that on the other polarity and this is the God this is the one the indivisible which we call a heya the I am which in looking upon into itself sees these two aspects of itself this activity there has this propelling force which again is received by that which we call the cosmic mother and yet it's all taking place within the one and the three aspects or sefiroth or emanations of god together usually called the supernal triad it's from this incidentally which has developed the idea of Father, Son and Holy Ghost though it isn't correctly understood and the number three you know the three aspects of God actually of course they are the two in one which makes it three and then the Sun really is another on a lower arc we finally we have the Sun which shouldn't be called the Sun at all generic humanity is what it should be called in essence but you see what we have developed in the cultural life and therefore we misinterpret the real meanings of the whole process of creation now then the Elohim actually again when you study it in its original language and text has this particular meaning it means because incidentally it has a masculine prefix and a plural and a feminine ending and also has a plural in its meaning as a whole when you analyze it dramatically on the whole the Elohim means the male and female spirits of God the male and female spirits of God. The seven are really involved, and you might therefore say that the seven holy spirits of God, male and female, these are the Elohim. Because it's on that arc of self-contemplation that the development or the principle of the development of form begins. Now Now this outpouring dynamic principle of life, of the masculine principle, you see, could be nothing at all, except that it also has the feminine principle to which it instantly and magnetically goes.

The feminine principle is inert and dead and nothing until it's stirred into life by the masculine principle. So you see, one cannot be said to be better than the other. One, each one is nothing without the other. This is the point. The male principle of the whole universe is nothing, except that the female principle holds and gives it form, birth.

The male principle means nothing because it could not even know itself. self. It's the discipline of form that evolves individuality, self-knowing, and evolution.

Therefore, it's the female principle of God which is the real creator of the universe.

And please don't throw tomatoes at me. She couldn't do it without the he principle, remember. He is forever making her fertile. So there are two other names cabalistically.

Two other names, kabbalistically, for this particular aspect of God. Amma, which is the dark, terrible mother, and Aima, the bright, fertile mother.

And of course, it's the masculine principle that makes her the bright, fertile mother, the form developer, the form giver. So in the cosmic principle, I can't give it to you in how it works. through the nebulas and the stars and so on in just a little Sunday morning talk. So I go into these things in a great deal of detail when we take them up in my classwork, because we have more time. But I merely bring it to your attention.

So, you know, I suppose some of you have heard the story of the suffragette, not too many years ago, who having raised quite a bit of uh uh ooh la la in a particular town beating the drum for the vote in relation to women they felt in this town that she was creating more or less of a riot so they put her into jail and in jail she met another little woman who was in there for something else and then tremendous despair and she wept and wept and wept this little young girl and so finally the suffragette couldn't uh stand it she was so touched she said now now my dear now now you mustn't feel so badly pray to god she will help you has it ever occurred to us to pray to god that she might help us there's nothing wrong with praying to god for his help you know i mean we're not asking you to throw away the masculine principle we'd be nothing the thing is the miracle of the two and to give each its reverence and its worship masculine principles should therefore worship feminine principle feminine principles should worship masculine principle because this is the highest form of love each is nothing without the other and yet to try to make uh the idea of the deity a he and think of deity as a he and yearn for deity as a he is going off on an unbalanced tangent basically we have to learn to be able to experience and receive both and understand the differences. Therefore, inasmuch as now we can agree that even in the Bible it says that the Elohim said, let us make man in our image, I think that we can agree together then that it is God and goddess who created humanity because remember actually they didn't say man in in its original text they used the word Adam in the original text which really means generic humanity and remember it also says male and female created they them remember created they them that also is in the first part of of Exodus, the one we're talking about. So you can see things are not exactly as they have seemed, even on the spiritual level. Now then, what can we do to make ourselves more aware of this feminine aspect of God and therefore utilize its power more? You see, in essence, there is really a good reason for some of the feeling to have arisen and have been misinterpreted. This fear, for instance of the female which by the way all males have way deep down and you're very intelligent boys We're dangerous aren't we?

We female aspects of God dangerous for this reason Because the masculine principle though we all male and female have both in us, you know In essence we do but you see the masculine principle has become bound by the feminine principle.

You can see this when you see that the masculine principle is this free-driving dynamic force, whereas the feminine principle takes and binds it in what? In her womb.

And cosmically speaking, she does the same thing. She binds it in these vortices. Why you have your nebulas, you have... That's why you have form at all. you couldn't have a star, a nebula, a tree, or anything if it weren't for the female aspect of God taking this wild, free, projecting dynamic life force of the masculine principle of God and shaping it into form.

Nevertheless, both do it consciously almost that higher arc though we have not yet come to a level in our own evolution where we recognize this now in the roman catholic church you know there has developed a great deal of mention of mary the mother of jesus but do you know what she's called she's called uh also Virgin Mary Stella Maris, which means, you know, Virgin Mary, Star of the Seas.

Now, in Qabalah, you see here again, you see where little portions have been taken out. In Qabalah, another name for the cosmic female aspect is Mara, and it means the great seas.

Plural, incidentally, although in the development it's been called singular. Mara, the great seas, and Mara means bitter.

Bitter. Now we all know that there's a bitterness in us when we feel bound by anything, isn't there? I mean we fight and we become unhappy and then we become, we develop hate and so on because we feel bound and yet without a body what would we be? Without a vehicle through which to express we could not be sons and daughters of God. Therefore, the principle of evolution is dependent on binding and developing into an organized structure.

This is why the cosmic aspect of God as female needs to be understood in order to use it properly for healing. Because organized structure comes from the female aspect of God whereas the life force and the energy for this structure comes from the masculine aspect of God. It's true of us of now physical bodies, it's true on any level we want to think of it. The subconsciousness is said to be the builder of form and the subconsciousness is said to be she, isn't that right? But Does build her form. How could she build form if she didn't know how? That's why Kabbalistically she is assigned to understanding, or in other words, intelligence. Does this surprise you boys?

Who always love to talk about the lack of logic in the woman's mentality? It's just another kind of logic. And don't forget, we're all still evolving.

The man with his tendency to the irradiating, you know, and sort of free dynamic force goes off into more of the abstract elements. The woman with her form-giving element immediately keeps saying, yes but what is it for? How are we going to use it? Which annoys the man. And you see this is the expression on our everyday level of a cosmic principle that goes on all the time. And so the man will say, my God! Well that's a good thing to say, it come to think of it isn't it calling on the deity except perhaps in this instance we should say oh my goddess this war in harmony with what's happening understanding each other as masculine and feminine principle and remember each of us having both except on different levels of our different and vehicle is the secret of everything and we repeat of everything therefore qabalah is said to hold the whole secret of the law of gender now then in as much as it holds that secret can't you see how important it is for healing to understand this and to go to work on changing our innate responses so i'll tell you what let's do let's make up our minds to stop being woman haters of course most women haters deny it but uh you know all men have a little secret feeling of antagonism towards women as do all women i'm not going to be one-sided you're not going to catch me that way as do all women i have a little secret antagonism towards men it's what's often called the war of the sexes they might love them but you know we're many things All right, it's the secret antagonism we want to get rid of.

Not that we will not run into problems with each other, but remember these very problems, these interactions and stresses are what expand our consciousness and make us grow.

Therefore, to get annoyed and to hold this essence of antagonism on a subtle plane, it is an interference to us. it interferes with everything we want to accomplish certainly with balance and with wholeness so let's start trying to see the feminine principle so this is Mother's Day so we better now stick to just that part of it and maybe on Father's Day I'll bring in more of the understanding of the other elements in more detail wouldn't that be a better idea all right so in regard to the feminine principle cosmically speaking which expresses right down into every atom of life which means into the form what we want to hold in mind really uh intensively is this that in as much as qabalah calls that part the mother cosmic mother the female principle the sanctified intelligence i want to repeat it or the sanctifying intelligence can you see where the idea of virgin mary came and was misinterpreted the sanctifying intelligence and this also called bina which means uh understanding you know and ima the mother this sanctifying intelligence this cosmic female aspect is said to be the receiver of the life force for the development of all forms the mother of all life the mother of all life and the eternal virgin forever pure and undefiled now do you start understanding where some of the stories have come from and how they've been mistranslated but the meaning behind this is something we've got to know every female human and and other beings little pets flowers no matter what every female is an embodied aspect of the cosmic feminine principle.

Therefore, every female carries within her this sanctifying intelligence.

Even from very lowly evolved ones, it's just not awakened. It lies there dormant. But it lies there dormant because it still needs to be awakened by what? By the firing into life of its complement. the cosmic male principle but aside from that every female is this now i'd like to ask you a question do have any of you ever come into birth in any but one way ask yourself how were you born this was very important how were you born or do any of you was even Jesus born in any other way than you I mean the actual birth whatever is said otherwise just think what brought you into the world how were you ushered into the earth plane all of us are in the same spot aren't we every single one of us came through the same gate and so in Qabalah the gates of Binah are mentioned as also being the womb of the world well now in relation to the mother this being Mother's Day please let's try to train ourselves to remember as often as we can that no matter what instrument no matter what or who was the the instrument through which we came into this world for embodiment and experience.

There is only one mother and every female is an aspect of this one mother expressing that part of the powers of God. Therefore every one of us have reason to love Mother God just as much as Father God haven't we every one of us on the other hand some of us will say ah but a few knew what my mother was like some people have had monsters for mothers and this is true there are some monsters I see a very little boy shaking his head next to the most beautiful mother you can imagine and I can see that there's an adorable relationship of teasing here. I think that's delightful.

Keep it up honey.

That's marvelous. I love to see such a natural beautiful relationship of teasing that goes on. At any at any rate we certainly know that there are some monsters who've been mothers now they may have been monsters as far as their evolutionary level is concerned but the point is they still travailed didn't they they still travailed whether they wanted to or not whether they hated it or not, whether they accepted us or not, they still, willing or unwilling, they didn't go walking, they were dragged. They had to be God's instrument to bring you into the world. Isn't that right? Therefore, the pain that has been involved, whether they accepted it willingly or not, is something we should revere if we cannot love our mothers because we've had monsters as mothers which some of us have had we can love our mothers when we remember who the real mother is we've never been begotten by anybody except the female aspect of god remember ima is our mother the elohim made us in their image.

We are sons and daughters of God, Goddess. And the female aspect of God is that which nurtures, builds, and heals receiving from the masculine father aspect of God the wherewithal or energy so to do.

So let's not neglect, Mother, let's not neglect the cosmic aspect of mother is what I refer to I'm not saying go all sentimental out to whatever your physical plane mother happens to be whatever your relationship is or is not with your physical plane mother is a karmic thing but one thing if you hated her you don't need to anymore if you loved her you got more reason to love her love her on a higher arc and if you were fairly neutral you have a way to become unneutral and you can see that the development of this idea of eve being the cause of all trouble that is the female aspect is because certainly the feminine aspect takes and holds that form which was free cosmically speaking and disciplines it holds it and organizes it into a conscious being to beget children for her Lord.

This God does and this we do and when we learn to react from that level, being willing to worship each other as aspects of God and Goddess. The female being able to look up to her man and to say, my Lord, knowing what she's really talking about. And the man being able to look up to the woman and being able to say thou divinity thou sanctifying divinity because only through the sanctifying intelligence or only through through Bina or only through the female aspect of life does man achieve the purification of his wild and undisciplined drives of this magnificent life force energy which it is his honor and his privilege to express in and for God so you see we must use the female aspect and we must use it a great deal and we must learn to revere it wherever we see it flower and tree and in children and when we see a woman with the beautiful curve of her belly do you think that's a vulgar word it isn't it's a very beautiful word beautiful when we show you a picture let your heart raise raise itself up with the wonder and miracle of god expressing in and through form and worship this principle and you will find that in your own private life you will start worshiping this principle in your relationships and you will find a heaven on earth you didn't even know could exist this is only a portion of what we could say we've said too much now for the powers of the intonation to help you now what we will you see we will be gathering up all the loose ends and our last in the next Sunday morning talk and the last talk we'll show you how to combine these various intonations and divine names with their meanings but as you can see we want to give you one at a time here to get the principle into you then we'll be able to utilize it more effectively so now we want to practice the chant of the Elohim if you would go to the organ please and if you would if you would bring no i like that too uh would you uh somebody bring this to our organist please thank you Now you will first watch me and listen to me.

Remember you have to take a very deep breath.

Remember you not only have to take a very deep breath, but you have to hold it. And you have to try to do the intoning from your solar plexus to get the force going from there. This incidentally awakens your chakras in an amazing manner for healing this type of intonation. and it breaks up these old patterns, especially when you know what the word means that you are intoning, which is a definitely group of sounds that have to do with the powers or thought processes of the higher forces themselves. So when we work with this intonation, especially when we do it as a group, by the way, as in group, like this, it's got much more power than when we work alone. because you know we're two or more gathered in my name then we have the inner school helping us here you'd be amazed how many there are for this course matter of fact that some of them are even here to sort of take some lessons from the other side because this is the first time we've ever permitted this part of the teaching to be given out this publicly you know now remembering that we're breaking up patterns and that this is just a portion of what we're to to do yet through this month keep in mind that the vibration is what needs it changes the whole etheric structure of your body but it starts from the deepest part within out and it has to be done regularly of course I'll give you all those instructions before our Sunday morning talks on this are over which will be at the end of this month and It has to be done regularly in order to keep shaking loose old patterns along with whatever meditations are necessary for real healing And meanwhile you can definitely use these intonations to help you heal yourself Physically to intensify the healing forces and for others remember this then I will again give you a repeat on our Intonations of last Sunday and we'll do that each week Until we're accustomed to all of the power words of power from the Qabalah that we need at this time. So now to show you how the Elohim should sound in intonation. First I will give it to you in the melody, then I will give it to you on one note which is the way you will want to work with it for a long time. The melody is something that comes later but I want you to have it and know it, see what it sounds like because it's part of other processes that no doubt we'll be giving in our next color and sound work i think from what i understand what the inner school sends me all right let's have the notes of Elohim that's the last one i think you'll see on that little sheet first let's have that Elohim and now I'm going to take a deep breath and do it with the organ listen carefully I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Deep breaths.

All of us again.

E-R-O-E-E-M you notice the power that starts rising how many of you are feeling that that stirring of of power is in you just from that little bit you see this is amazing either the amount of power we've been stirring that so many get it right away but you'd be you'll be amazed at what occurs with regular usage now remember what i told you doing it on one tone is practically the same not exactly but you need other things to be able to work with the melody aspects or other things that are needed which we can't give at this time but I think we'll give in our next class so let's give it to you now on the one tone so that you'll be able to work with it and first I will listen to me so you will see and see for yourself the power is there also right right And now I'm gonna do it for you again, and then you join me Now no note because this time I'm gonna take it on a lower arc I want to show you that when you do it on one tone, you can take a different note depending on what you need at the moment. This is one of the things about the one tone. Your own intuition leads you to the note for that particular time.

Elohim See that? So that one got me because I picked the notes you see. I just practically floated up there and I have to stay here. I don't think that it would be very practical. All right now let's all try it then on one note and let's have a slightly lower note because whenever you intone on one note by the way always use a lower tone for your vibration than when you do you the melody which has exact notes that have that are scientifically involved with the intonation now then let's have a lower that's a good one all right let's wait a minute now because everybody wants to take a good deep breath first Again. Elohim.

Very good. Now I'll explain more about how and when to use these things. I meant to also go into Adonai, which is the lower arc of the intonation. You see, Adonai in the Bible has always been translated Lord from the translators. But I'm going to tell you a little secret. It really refers to Malkuth. It's the divine name of Malkuth, which is the physical kingdom and actually is a female aspect of God in conjunction with the king. or the male aspect of god and i haven't had time to go into that this morning there's just too much to do but the adonai is another thing to be used for healing and we it's so late this morning i'll try to get it in uh perhaps on our last uh sunday i was watching here just what the things were we won't have time with the angelic because i have so much i have to show you in relation to the the angelic invocations won't even begin to give it all to you.

We'll just have to give you a portion of it, but enough so you can use it potently. And then the Adonai, I'll try to remember to give it to you the last Sunday of our healing work, which has to do with helping to manifest from that all-pervading more firmly into the physical.

Meanwhile, you'll hear me intone it when I do the invocation, as it should be, instead of saying it, as I've done up till now.

I do want us all together though to intone Adonai though now that I come to think of it before we go on with the service. Just once. Will you play it and then I'll talk to you about it later but I want you to intone it now. To help bring down whatever healing certain people are reaching for more thoroughly. Will you play the Adonai melody?

Adonai Adonai of the manifested universe you see the divine is one but on different levels of expression there are different vibrational tones that are called its divine names and have the power to make whole heal and evolve in those areas so let's once again think of bringing the healing into your full the fullest subconscious areas for expression into your physical when we do this again because several have been reaching up for healing here that's why I thought we better do it and then go on with the service reach to help intensify it let's have the melody together again Now I want you to hear me do it without the melody so you can see the power and use it without it.

A-do-na-ee What is it?

Adolai Again.

ADORNA I I I I I I I I I I I is the force and life and being in and through all form no matter how diversified and therefore making all form and evolving it to absolute perfection that when you're intoning that this is what you're saying for yourself for others and when you're intoning the Elohim you are saying in essence that you are balancing your male-female forces making active in you the nourishing, organizing, forming aspect of the female part, the mother part of God being nurtured by her as well as expressing her and therefore becoming truly something whole, sanctified and full of faith because faith is attributed to this part of the tree of life. Love your mother on high and everywhere no matter what she seems to look like. This morning we're going to
