This morning we're going to speak about the invocation of angelic forces for healing.

Now, of course, I don't know how many of you think that the idea of angelic forces is a silly notion or rather foolish.

If you have thought so, I wouldn't blame you, because there was a time when I wouldn't have gotten only red, I'd have gotten quite purple at the idea of people being superstitious enough. To accept or believe in what would have appeared to me as anything so outrageously Nonsensical and without question some kind of superstitious leftover from primitive minds. So you see I Would sympathize with you if you had that feeling Nevertheless, I did change Whether I've gone backward or forward is a moot question it depends on your point of view whether you are for or against this idea however i do want to explain it to you to present the principle along with the chanting we will do together the invocation in order to help you to use these forces to aid you in your meditations and intensification of your own healing work which incidentally definitely not only includes the healing of your soul or shall we say the lower vital soul as we call it in Qabalah that is your mental emotional makeup it includes all phases of the vehicle for the one life because real healing comes from within out and really not from without in and whenever we do receive healings that come from without in usually within a certain length of time will break out with something else as we've explained to you before has been shown for example under hypnosis the healing must come from the deepest part of the being and radiate outward into every atom of what we call our vehicles and this is one of the main reasons that we have such potency in the invocational usages Now, what is the principle, basically?

Well, as we know by now, this being the third of our series in the use of invocations, which I think perhaps we'll continue to do for a while, even after the series is over, if you want to, if you want to continue group practice, I think we'll take, say, five minutes every Sunday morning and do this group invocation.

Do you want that? Yes.

I didn't hear anybody say, no, you'd be too bashful, wouldn't you?

That's one way to get you to agree to something I want to do, isn't it?

Well, as we were saying, the whole principle behind the idea of angelic forces, of course, has to do with the knowledge of occultism in general. Now, students of metaphysics on the whole usually fall into various categories. There are those whom we may call the ones who go along with elementary metaphysics, and this is good. This is their level, and this is what's needed. They're starting to learn about the potency of consciousness. After a while, they'll learn that there's more to it than this, much more. They'll become dissatisfied, they will aspire, they will discover it doesn't always work the way they're told it will work in elementary metaphysics, and finally then they will be guided and guess by what? By angels, believe it or not, to the next phase of spiritual growth. Now there are various next phases. Actually, the Tarot Qabalistic method is the most advanced phase of occult training. You may not see all of it here, because this is open temple.

But remember, we have various grades in our work. And those of you who prepare yourselves, who actually learn your lessons so that you know them fairly well, you don't have to know them perfectly, because believe me, I think only Only God himself could even begin to know these lessons perfectly. I wouldn't even credit the angels with that much ability to understand. It's getting a fair comprehension of the various ideas of symbolism and the use of symbol in our everyday life in order to transmute our consciousness. This is an absolute essential for the ABCs of true and the most potent kind of spiritual growth. advancement. So we have these various grades and of course some people go along with us only for say a step, some take many steps, some go all the way and it's all right this is all in accordance with an individual. Sometimes some go along for a little while and the tests they face are too strong and they drop out for a little while then after a bit they discover it's worse and they come back and decide it's better to go through a little extra discipline and learn how to overcome so we have all these various ways and methods of attaining and finally uh as we said those who managed to finish uh that part of the work the that dr case has outlined in the lesson and pass certain very subtle psychological tests that they don't even know they're undergoing going, incidentally, by the Grand Chief and the Chief, are finally, and this is a preliminary discipline, are admitted into the next probationary discipline. You think they were finished, but they're not. And those who tell you that it's easy to attain to the complete perfection which we are destined for are fooling you. Try them, find out, then come back, and let's walk together learning learning how to chuckle and smile and face our problems with the help of the angels.

I think that makes it much easier when we have each other and know that we have a way to go and have each other to lean on, along with we mustn't forget the angels. Now then, and actually it is in the esoteric or chapter part of the work that the full training exists for the use of the various levels of forces to grow and intensify and expand the consciousness into ever greater power and perfection of personality until finally attaining to the Christ consciousness itself.

Though there are usually few who have the capacity to attain this fully, many, very many, can certainly start attaining it partially and thereby know that eventually it will be a continuous thing, even though it may take another incarnation or two, or perhaps have to be finished on the other side of the veil, if they have finished their test over here. Therefore, we cannot give you all of the principles that are behind the use of angelic forces, as you can understand, not because we wish to withhold anything from you, believe me. It is pretty much the same thing as Dr. Case has often outlined as trying to give into the hands of an unprepared person certain chemicals which if you bring them together will explode. In other words, you have to know how to mix your psychic and spiritual chemicals and use them in certain ways in order not to explode yourself or your environment because true guidance is safe guidance and Qabalah is the safest method of attainment which exists on this planet as has been noted by many great authorities.

So, though we cannot give you the full principles since you must prepare yourself for that we can give you quite a bit now much that has never been given before because as we pointed out, never before in Open Temple has the line of Mystery School training which I represent which it is my privilege and responsibility to carry on during this particular cycle. Never before have we given out this much the use of the potent forces involved as we've been giving in Open Temple now and will continue to do. And the reason we are doing this is because, as we pointed out before, the time is becoming more and more intensified with the various cosmic energies where it becomes necessary to use more and more intensive hothouse methods you know to grow the plant a little faster in the hothouse and so we are doing it now knowing that the angels are guiding our own to us to take them as far as they are able to go at this time and so this is what we're doing we're trusting to these powers So now let's understand what we mean by angel. Well of course first we have to talk about God, don't we? Now in Qabalah, remember, there are said to be ten divine emanations. Actually these ten divine emanations are ten ways that the one life or the one God expresses itself. And these have the various terminology so that, for instance, when God is expressing as masculine life power, there's a specific name given and we have been intoning it the Yod-Heh-Wa-Heh which is the masculine potency of God when the same God is expressing in its feminine nature and feminine potency it is called Elohim and we've been intoning that and will again as we told you and we will continue practicing it to help you heighten your consciousness as we go along even with our other talk now when uh the same lord of life is expressing in and through the physical uh experience there's a name also and this is adonai which incidentally in the bible has been translated as lord most of the time actually it's adonai and uh you if you think carefully you'll notice that in the bible sometimes it says God, sometimes it says Lord God, sometimes it says just Lord, and all the time the foolish translator said he, but we told you last Sunday morning, Mother's Day, that it isn't just he. Did you notice the beautiful lady angel we found for the program announcing, when we sent you the program for the invocational forces? I was very happy. Incidentally, the angels brought this to my attention. Truly they did. I hope you will agree. Now, you said although there are these ten divine names, they're really just ten names for one thing, just like I am one person. But I am a sister, I am a mother, I am a grandmother, I am a friend, I am a teacher, I am a student. Don't you see? I am many kinds of relationships and yet I am one. Yet you wouldn't be calling me mother when when I'm acting as a sister now would you my sister wouldn't say mother dear my sister says to me sister dear that is when she's feeling loving so in essence the same principle exists in creation on whatever level the expression of the one life is taking place there is a special name which is what expressing a special relationship which means that we are tuning ourselves to that special power in other words, we are bringing about a relationship with that aspect of God, depending on the Divine Name and on the Archangel and Angelic forces that are involved. And this is how we develop the expansion of our awareness and the perfection or wholeness of our being. Now of course that's just one minute portion of it. Now in Qabalah we are taught there are the four worlds. Of course you who have read many occult books have read of the seven worlds or the seven planes and all that, which is also true. But one of the planes is subdivided. The basic four main categories still exist. And these main categories on the highest level, I won't give you their names right now at the moment because we want to go go into the other things in class work we can give it to you and then practice understanding that sort of thing when we give those class on that now on the highest world we have what is always uh said to be the complete and highest level of godhead and therefore on this highest world archetypal world it's the world of the abstract really uh there we always use the divine name for that highest world for whatever one of the ten divine emanations are being referred to, because you see these four worlds are related to each of the ten divine emanations. Now the second world, which is called Bria and has to do with the imaginative aspect of God, is assigned to the forces of the archangels. The third, which is called the formative world, is assigned to the forces of the angels, the angelic hosts they are called. And then the fourth or lowest world, which is a seer, is assigned to the actual manifestation or form side of life. That is, it's the product of the above or the other three. And in actuality, whether we realize it or not, for instance, you switch on a button, what What you don't realize is, is that electricity has come through something that is arranged in this room, then through another transformer somewhere in the city, then lines going to other places, to the main place where the power is being gathered.

In other words, it goes through many sections before you get that light. In the same manner, creation, or the divine powers of the one life, go through these various translations, depending on the world. Therefore, when we pray to God, for example, even when we don't know it, just like even if we don't know where the electricity comes from, we're trying to press a button, actually, when our prayer is right, when it's properly centered and concentrated, it goes through the various worlds to reach the highest center. That is the highest world. and then returns, in other words, and through the transmission stations, through the transmission stations, therefore the world of the highest world is never involved with form because this is the most abstract, the divine, you know, without beginning end, like an all space with nothing in it, in a sense, to try to give you an analogy, though it is a vast I am-ness. But you You see, on this next level, say the contact is made in prayer.

On this next level, the thing that is stirred into action is what? The archangel for that particular world or that need. And therefore, every one of the sefirot have a specific archangel with a specific name and their specific ways to tune in to these archangels and the world. But all of the details that have to do with all the sefirot have to be reserved for chapter. Here, what we're going to give you is something most extraordinary and potent. We're going to give you the four archangels that rule the four directions. You will have read about them in the Apocalypse, which is incidentally a Qabalistic book, if you don't know that. The four archangels which rule the four parts of space, which are involved incidentally also with the four fixed signs of the zodiac, because these are the powers that are immediately translated from the Godhead into action, the archangelic powers. Now, how does it work?

Actually, what are archangels?

Archangels are personalized aspects of God himself.

They're not anything different. Personalized aspects of God himself. self just like when i'm with my sister i'm a personalized aspect of sisterness you might say right now what are the angels the angels are personalized aspects of the archangels what are physical phenomenon i mean physical form these are the personalized aspects of the angels and they're called the elementals or the elemental kingdom which we don't want to fool around with at all what we want to do is deal directly with the highest because the elemental kingdom is full of allure allure and we are warned in the esoteric traditions in one part of a very solemn ceremony stoop not down stoop not down to that darkly splendid world what we have to learn to do is to to grab up at the highest, and then the elementals will follow the forces they have to follow because of our having learned how to vibrate to the highest levels and to send out our call, to tune ourselves in.

Now, you have, of course, heard or read from the Bible many times how God will send his angels to care for thee, to hold thee, and so on. What do you think that means? actually anytime anybody has an answer to a prayer they'll say God did this God did that God certainly did or God did it through a personalized aspect of itself the Archangelic force down through the angelic force in other words through transmission stations you might ask well what do we have to know all this for as long as we pray to God and turn to God isn't that enough it's enough for those who don't want to learn how to become what God insists that you become sooner or later God said and let us make man in our own image and remember God means he she Jehovah Elohim let us they begot man let us make man in our own image man really to nourish humanity and let them have dominion all right now we have to will learn how to have dominion or we're going to have nothing but trouble. We can't just idly and wisely just say, well, all will be well, you know, well, God is love, all will be well. You'll find out you'll be in more trouble as you go along like that because all will not be well if you just very vaguely and mildly keep claiming that God is love. God is love and all will be well eventually eventually when you do your part as a personalized aspect of God to gain the dominion that you must gain over the elemental forces and you do it through the God name and the archangelic messengers of God therefore it is your absolute responsibility to God to yourself to your near and dear ones and to your fellow man to make up your mind that you're going to go through these various disciplines you're going to learn to use everything you have to learn to know no matter how silly it might seem if it's going to give you dominion over your own elemental nature which are your passions your hates your tears your fears your sorrows and so on you've got to learn to have dominion over that your yourself and your environment and you and therefore it becomes important to know what forces are used because certainly anyone can switch a button and turn on the electricity and prayer to God without knowing anything else will bring beautiful and mystical results very often naturally it will we're all children of God but you're not going to be able to wire a house for electricity no are you going to be able to decide with am I going to use this electricity for cooking for heating for driving the car you have to become one who has dominion and the longer you wait the harder it's going to be for you so here we're offering you something pretty marvelous really we're offering you a soft spot hard work in order not to have it tougher later and yet wonderful work because it helps us to start learning how to vibrate with a glory and a light and a miracle and a mystery beyond description so the Archangelic forces are the ones we're going to learn to vibrate today realizing that what we're doing then is really learning how to to make contact with the direct messengers of God. Now here's the thing though I want you to remember every true aspirant must make up his mind in fact make a solemn vow and I ask you to do it here and now to make a solemn vow that you will never break never to use any intonation or power of any kind without first intoning the divine name. In other words, first tune into and touch the highest God Almighty in whatever divine name it be, because it's still all God. Then go to your Archangelic name, which we will, you have heard, but we will give you the intonation. Will you please all now solemnly in your heart make this valve it is for your own protection it is for your protection because if you do not short-circuit yourself with fire or with electricity when you have your plugs and your wires correctly arranged and the correct arrangement every aspirant every initiate must learn this from the bottom of their heart know it from the depths of their soul that whatever we do we reach to God as the first thing so though we will be vibrating the archangelic names and I could explain it to you remember first the divine then the archangelic and then next week we will give you some more that involves our Qabalistic chant to help you do that much more with it and then you'll see how the whole invocation work that we do here in the temple. Now have you all taken your inner vow to God?

Because to God alone is the one you need given. All right. Therefore, keep in mind this. The four directions go in this order. Raphael is east.

Now always be in your proper direction, incidentally, with your archangelic name.

Actually, you would know him as Raphael. It's hard for me to say it. I have intoned it for so many years. Now Gabriel, which you would know as Gabriel, is West. Michael is South, which we intone Mikael.

and Uriel is north which we intone Oriel. Notice every one of the archangelic names ends with ale. Actually ale is a divine name and it's another protection keeping you tuned to the highest forces. You intone a divine name, you intone an archangelic name, and even the archangelic name ends with a divine finish, El, which is one of the divine names assigned to one of the highest aspects of the Godhead. So have you got that? Raphael East, Gabriel West, Mikael South, Uriel North. Now before we go into that intonation though we want our divine name remember so what we're going to do is together go over the divine names that we've done will somebody will please bring this little uh slip of paper to our organist i request you return to me after the service. Now then, remember that the divine name Aheya, incidentally don't forget in intonation what we're doing is shaking loose all those old patterns. At all times, divine name, Archangelic name, we're healing even when we're not in taunting specifically with that in mind. When we're in taunting in order to attain a heightened consciousness to touch God, to know God more fully. Automatically vibrating with the word, because this is what's meant by the power of the word you know. And you'll have to learn how to vibrate it. It may take some of you months of practice before you really become good at it. Some of you may be good at it right quick but doing it together we will gather a group power here where i have an idea we might have some very astonishing healings take place as we build up the vehicle in our sunday morning temple temple here you see with these deliberate healing intonations in fact this is what i'm hoping we'll do if we manage to stick together with this force and then we'll be able to do so much more for those we work on at home and i will help you to understand that later on we won't have time this morning maybe next Sunday morning I'll try to help you understand how you can use this more effectively when you're also using it for others we'll try to get to it if not we'll get it in in one of the next talks there's so much right now first then see what we're going to do I'll explain first so we can go right through we're going to intone four divine names now Ahaya is the one that's assigned to the one the indivisible you know the beginning of all things Jehovah is the divine name assigned to the father aspect of God number two on the tree of life those of you who want to go and check it after the service Elohim is assigned to the mother aspect of God that's number three on the tree of life then Adonai is assigned to number ten on the tree of life that's the physical manifestation we're doing that because we're working on healing to try to bring healing into the body so we that and to bring everything through for a balance that's why we we are using this particular order and these particular aspects or or vibrations of god's holy name so we will get first in town those four names together uh i will we will sing them together if you will since in the group we can do it though at home remember do it on the one note so let we'll sing it once we'll intone it once on the note and that way you'll all be able to feel that you can participate those of you who can't carry a note for example and it's powerful even without the melody remember of the vibrations all right now let's have a heya Deep breath.

Ah, hey, yeah.

You better listen to me. Some of you weren't in the proper rhythm.

Ah, hey, yeah.

All right, now together. Breath.

Ah-hey-eh.

Now on one note. A-HE-E-N Now Yod-He-Wa-He Hei Wah Hei Deep breath Yo Hei Wah Hei Now on one note.

Yod He Wah He Remember the deep breath. Remember to make it come from your solar plexus. you'll develop more and more of the power of your practice. Now let's have Adonai.

Adonai Adonai Deep breath.

Adonai Adonai Elohim.

Deep breath.

Elohim.

Now on one note.

Elohim.

Elohim.

That can transmute your whole vehicle if you would do that regularly. Do you know that?

All right, now we'll go to the Archangels.

Let's have Raphael.

Deep breath.

Raphael we're going to go right through with the melody then we'll go through it on one note now, Gabriel Well.

Well.

Well.

Well. Well. Well. Well. Well. Well.

Well. Well.

Well. Well. Well. Well. Well. Well. Well. Mikael.

Deep breath. Mi-ka-e-o Listen to the rhythm. Mi-ka-e-o All right, now let's have Oriel.

It's a tough one.

Breath.

O-R-E-A-L You can see what a lot of practice that would take and why it's not wise to work with melody by yourself. Only one that's trained like I am can do this and those whom I have trained. but I wanted you to be able to participate together in the power of this melody as you start getting an idea of how chance developed. It's actually, don't forget, each one of these notes, they weren't just made up. Every one of these letters has a color. Every one of these colors has a tone. There's a combination and a rhythm. It goes from way back and it is the scientific and mathematical as the forces that whirl through the universe. We're not dealing with anything haphazard this is a potent and it's learning how to do it that'll give you the power now remember one note gives you all the power you'll need it is all is as powerful as you can even begin to comprehend and the melody really is meant to be used just on very special occasions anyway but I wanted you to be familiar with it so you could see the haunting did you notice the a haunting power that is underneath all of this with the melody. All right, but we still have the power with the one note. Now together then, let's intone the archangelic forces. Now we've already done our divine names. I want you to be holding in mind when you do each one of these names, remember you don't want to be empty-minded. This is Archangel of the East, Messenger of God.

let it pour forth from you in thought let your you know your mind and your heart be reaching as you're vibrating out to contact it if from all directions in other words power means intent this is what makes you human and never forget this though the angels may be said to be a little higher than man they are not They're only a little higher than man in the same sense that a one-year-old baby cannot do as much for itself as a one-year-old dog.

Man is higher in potential than the angels. Don't ever forget this because man is the begotten. Let us make man in our own image. Only man has the power to disobey. Angels have not got the power to disobey anybody or anything. they follow the form the thought the direction come on high and on the lower level the elemental levels from our nonsense we still direct them so you remember may be reaching to angels for help you're reaching to the Archangels which is a direct personalized aspects of God but you are potentially man God the angels are not eternally individualized they are individualized only as long as a certain cycle of manifestation exists when that cycle of manifestation is withdrawn they go back to the source because they do not go through the crucifixion which we do by going through incarnations of flesh and gathering and gaining dominion do you get the idea of why and just what it is makes you so special and why it's important that you learn how to tune in to and gain dominion and use these forces and another thing i want you to know before we go into the one-tone exercise is this every time for instance you love angels gather that love if you have enough where you're where it pours out they gather it i've seen it i know it i don't know how many of you and please don't ask them to take me away and lock me up. My cat would miss me. But truly I've been aware of it and so many people. They come, they gather up the sessions. This love is pouring out that's over and they take it to people who weep, to people who pray, messengers of God. And we are also God's messengers. And God sends and weaves and takes and brings through these different aspects of itself.

So you see, in working with this intonation, love has to be heightened for ourselves. We want to work on it, because love is the most potent of healing power. When you combine your love with your power of intonation and vibration, my God, what you couldn't do. And you will do it. We'll work together.

Don't you think the angels are wonderful?

Now then, on one note, we're going to go right down the line with the angels. angels. Raphael. Raphael.

Gabriel Gabriel Abri-e-o Mikael Mi-ka-e-o OREAL OREAL OREAL All right, you know what I'm going to ask you to do now then? when we have our invocation for the angelic forces instead of my doing the angelic intonation alone from now on you join and let's really get some power going together with two or more so during that part of the invocation in the service let's all join together we'll do it on the one note and that and so we'll work along with that part of it and then with the arch with the divine name we'll do that during another part of the service but the archangelic name we'll do together here and help to promote our healing power when we do our healing meditation afterwards then that meet with your approval i've been waiting a long time for this to happen for us to be prepared together as a group to be able to do this and so i feel very curious now then uh even though this is a sunday morning service if anyone wants to ask just one or two questions uh where you're confused about the understanding of the archangelic forces for healing
