My talk for this morning is called Physical, Astral, and Spiritual Plane Telepathy.

Now, first of all, what do we mean by telepathy?

Of course, most of us have the idea that when we become aware of the fact that somebody thought about us, or thought a particular something which we received, or vice versa, then an act of telepathy has taken place. This is not untrue the actual teachings in esoteric occultism though go much beyond this according to qabalistic thought and this indeed is acquiesced in by all other esoteric teachings that are involved with the eastern schools of thought the whole universe comes into being through what? Through the power of sound which is what? Which is the power of thought or consciousness. Therefore the power of thought is something vibrating and of course modern science tells us now that everything is in vibrating motion. So this power of sound which is basically the power of thought is that that which the whole universe exists in, which has brought the universe into being.

Therefore, the whole principle of thought or of consciousness certainly is involved with our ideas of telepathy. Now, you see, we have the mistaken notion that only at such times when we become aware of a telepathic experience has such an experience occurred. Whereas in essence telepathy is said to occur at all times in all places and between all planes and that which we become aware of just happens to have been brought to self-consciousness at the moment nevertheless it's that which we are not aware of in terms of telepathy which can can often be a great problem to us also, incidentally, that which we are aware of and receive as true, whereas it might be the fantasy of another mind which we adhere to, and therefore we permit ourselves to become involved in the ripples or vibratory motion of a particular level of thought, which is not conducive towards control, growth, growth, higher spiritual awareness. Let's examine this a little more carefully now that we've laid out a basic principle for you. First of all, we should realize that every one of us are, in essence, a thought in the divine mind. Now, when we say we're a thought in the divine mind, remember this doesn't mean that the thought can go and therefore we go. Anything that has been a thought, is a thought will always be a thought and in the divine mind therefore the idea of ourselves as being a thought in essence means that we are a particular sound or we are a particular rate of vibration within the one consciousness and therefore we are a particular expression a thought expression of this one consciousness this is our individuality incidentally that particularized vibrational thought, which we are. And many a spiritual being who has experienced higher states of mind has declared that in some of the higher levels of awareness there is this definite symphony, you might call it, a symphony of life where everything that exists has its own tone, its own note or its group of tones, its group of notes, vibrating in the matrix of the divine substance, which is the substance of its own consciousness. Now it's because, incidentally, of this principle that we work, as you know, and now more intensively than ever, with the powers of invocation and intonation in order to bring about a change in our own vehicles so that our consciousness can have more of shall we say a high-fi set in our bodies to tune in to the spiritual levels of awareness instead of all this cacophony and discordance which we are prone to be tuned into due to the fact that we have not yet learned how to vibrate that is how to think and how to use the power of vibration in conjunction with thought to bring about an amplification of our consciousness in order that our consciousness may be telepathically receptive to the higher spiritual levels of being. This actually is the destiny for all of us in time, but for some of us the destiny isn't so far off in time if we get busy and start working with it now. The reason we are now having our weekly usage in a group effort at the use of vibration, the words of power are that which has been held secret for so many many untold numbers of centuries and part of which has now been given out for us to use together here. The reason we are doing this basically, well there's more than one reason, but shall we say one of the major reasons we are doing this is because it's becoming very much more important for all of us to become telepathically receptive to the divine plan for the evolution of man because of the time and era in which we're in.

And because at this point on this planet we have the mixture of some of the most lowly evolved consciousnesses, shall we put it that way, with some of the most highly evolved and many that are sort of wavering in the middle and ready to fall in one direction or another dependent on how intensively receptive to the more spiritual vibrations they can become and this truly is a telepathic power you see what we have failed to realize is this that when we meditate what are we doing when we meditate we are reaching with our consciousness to as high a level as we are capable of in order to telepathically receive the awareness that exists on the higher vibrational level of consciousness can't you see this and when we have any kind of telepathic influence from each other uh most of the time it's because part of our consciousness has reached to either one or the other because of some kind of closeness or rapport or similarity in the vibrations at that time with in other words and twiddling the needle of our personal radio sets, we keep tuning in from all the various levels. And the state we're in is what determines what we're going to tune into. And of course, some of the things we tune into are not at all pleasant. On the other hand, we can learn how to tune in to that which is more glorious than the most glorious symphony that was ever experienced, and it is a symphony of emotion. It's a symphony of mind. It's a symphony of heart.

Now let's examine a few cases of each of the different levels, and then I want to also talk to you about the psychic level telepathy which exists, because in that level we have much danger, incidentally, because of our ignorance of what actually seems to happen. Now when we say physical plane telepathy when we say psychic or astral plane telepathy or spiritual plane telepathy actually we are talking about one power expressing on a vibratory level that is either discordant or harmonious low or high immature or mature unevolved or spiritual you get the idea as we swing and now the spiritual telepathic receptiveness can take place in a body just as well as without a body as a matter of fact not until we learn to be receptive to the spiritual plane broadcasts in a physical body will we even have begun to attain to our destiny that is to develop the Christ consciousness and the powers over the vibrational areas of life which on this plane we call the material universe.

So you can see how very important it is to understand a principle that is so all-inclusive. The principle of telepathy exists because consciousness is one. One. The principle of telepathy exists because no thought is ever completely separated from any other thought. No emotion is ever completely separated from any other emotion. It's there, just like radio waves are there and going through us all the time, incidentally, even when we haven't got our radio turned on to tune in from a specific broadcast. Now one of the things that we do which causes us more in the way of problems than we realize, we have our personal radio sets on a sort of scanning device on the lower levels in this way that we're not pointing our consciousness and emotions and the result is that we are open to all kinds of thoughts and emotions going on in the mass mind because we have not yet trained our attention to remain focused on a vibratory needle that is to listen to some of the better musical programs like the hi-fi symphonic broadcast but we let let anything come in and then we and the reason we let anything come in is because we are still in a sense children in other words we have not yet learned how to hold our own thought substance in such a controlled manner that it will bring in only that which we choose to bring in and indeed this is the way we develop more and more strength of soul and individuality you know the repercussions of being open to the lower level nonsense which comes gradually trains us to start being more and more careful about being empty minded empty hearted or negative minded and negative hearted sometimes some I have heard people who are more familiar with this principle and others say that they wonder if a person doesn't go along faster when they really have a positively negative thought and emotion that they're concentrating on where the repercussions are quick and they learn their lessons rapidly rather than the kind of negativity that just at mamby-pamby's around leaving itself open to anything and everything and therefore learns very slowly indeed because there's no sharp focus for the impact of the forces and therefore the repercussion of the forces which train us how to avoid pain. You see pain is not an evil thing. It's a friend. It's the pain we experience from the nonsense of our consciousness which forces us into finding ways and means to start overcoming the tendency to tune in to this discordance which we then experience in our own personal spheres of life so on the physical plane in actuality we are open to the thinking and feeling of everyone around us and everyone around us is open to the thinking and feeling which we we have. And those who think and feel the most strongly will be the strongest broadcasters.

Mind you, I didn't say those who think the most spiritually. I said those who think the most strongly. Power is power. And the same electric power that gives us light and heat and heals human beings will also electrocute us when we use it unwisely. Power is power. Therefore the power of the thought and the power of the emotion is what usually indicates how much more readily other people are going to receive it. Now to give you an example, I don't know how many of you have been around an individual who's a very serious mental case a paranoid those of you who haven't will not understand this as much those of you who haven't been around a paranoid type of individual try to think of a type of individual who it just emanates and almost screams silently screams hostility as a vibration coming out. And that's the closest approximation that we can give you. But you see, the paranoid type has a tremendous intensity of emotion.

And what happens? The kindest and lovingest people, if they are around a paranoid long enough, are going to find themselves cracking and they'll explode into a hysterical outburst, even when it isn't their nature to do so now haven't every one of you at some time in your lives been around someone who just hammered with such hostility whose energies and emanations were so discordant that finally you found yourself exploding yourself in a way which was utterly abnormal to your nature? Hasn't everyone had that at least once? I think most of us have had that many times. What do you think that is? That's telepathy. Plain and pure telepathy working very intensively. And the projective element is so strong you see that it overcomes our own usual mental emotional response so that it takes over like an epidemic like germs you know pretty much the same idea like waves of germs will spread all over the place and those who are in its vicinity will develop whatever illness the germ is or develop an antibody but even in developing the antibody there's always some disturbance going on in the system you know while the antibody is being developed by your vehicle so you see some disturbances there depending whether it's so mild that your body can build up antibodies or whether it isn't strong enough so that you come down with the actual disease well the same thing happens in telepathy between each other you know in the eastern school of thought the aspirant is advised during a major phase of his spiritual aspiration to avoid being in the company of unevolved human beings to avoid being in the company of the low of the impure of the immature and some of us would say well why these are the people who need it we should go out and spread our light amongst them well could did you ever try uh to get um hi-fi music on a set that wasn't built for it if you've tried it you know what happens did you ever try putting on your tv set on a station that isn't hooked up for it?

Like, you know, we can turn it on station two and four, but have you ever tried turning your button to station three? What happens?

You get a lot of the snowflakes and whatnot?

You see, we have a lot of dreamy ideas that are unrealistic. Of course all human beings must be loved. Of course all human beings are one in essence. Nevertheless the point still remains that some consider it spiritual to cut off the enemy's head and eat his liver and some consider it spiritual to give up their lives for their fellow men you still have that difference in emotional response and are you going to go shedding a radiance when somebody hasn't got a station to absorb it yes you should shed it in general absolutely but you see the idea is this that when aspirants give as an excuse that these are the people we have to go amongst in order to spiritualize them we will say to you very true have you achieved that level of evolution where you can walk amongst them and your projection is stronger than theirs? Have you? Well as a matter of fact only a master of wisdom has achieved that strong an evolution. Though many of us can certainly walk amongst them and do for a certain period of time, but then we have to withdraw and do what? Reabsorb from the higher levels tune in to charge ourselves with the impact from the higher vibrations the point is it's because of this telepathic aspect that exists between us that we need very much to be involved in some group work this is why the inner school has outer vehicles you know so that we need to be involved in some group work where everyone is aspiring spiritually where everyone is reaching for God where everyone is working at transmuting the discordant vibrational levels of their own vehicles so that they become can become more and more receptors and receivers for the spiritual knowledge of who and what we are and so they can therefore emanate this sure knowledge because only when you know consciously who and what you are can you really emanate it in its most intensive aspects and therefore it is because again of this telepathic aspect involved in group work that a group working together spiritually in harmony with true principles of evolution can evolve as much more rapidly each individual within the group as not only taking every one of the group multiplied by ten but every one of them multiplied by a hundred or even a thousand because you see it goes by geometrical progression the ability to receive the telepathic impact and help therefore the love vibrations from the higher spiritual levels and from the inner school it intensifies each and every one of us in this geometrical progression that goes 2 4 8 16 32 64 and I bet it's a hundred is it 128 by golly even if I have a mathematical mind but you can see what starts to happen it isn't like two four six eight ten twelve that's how we go when we evolve but try to evolve by ourselves because we we need to group together you see in unity there is strength this is one of the reasons for in fact one of the most important reasons for getting yourself tuned in together with a really spiritual group where you really trust the spiritual leader and you should be very careful and test and try because there are many who may have very kind and wonderful thoughts in relation to leading may also be full of a great deal of self-deception or a great deal of the desire for power and could guide you astray in ways that we're going to show you that has to do again with the telepathic element let me give you an example I know of a school of thought I certainly will not tell you the name because we tear down no one we just want you to develop discrimination and your own heart and soul will guide you where you should be and we hope you feel that you can go farther with us because we know you can but it's up to you to know it yourself otherwise it cannot be but for example we know of one group where the head of this group was a psychic medium went into trance and certainly everyone in this group used to experience certain intensity of vibrations there was no doubt of that there was some kind of power that was present however every member also used to have private sittings and every one of these members in the private sittings but have a teacher come to them through this trance medium and tell them my darling you are an old soul and I have been guiding you through many many uh incarnations and now at last you have come back to me and I will help uh take care of you you meditate on me every night and know you're never going to be alone come to me with your problems you have nothing to worry about it last you've come home we were together in Egypt and we were together in Atlantis and maybe it was even Timbuktu who knows this is the usual line that's given and everyone I knew six people who went to that group and every one of those six people became so dependent on those sittings they wouldn't dream of taking a step you know should they look for another job or not Should they change their vocation or not? Or should they divorce the husband or not? Should they marry this woman or this man or not?

I mean talk about devolution. We are trying to evolve so that we are conscious centers of expressing choice and power and the will of God. And don't ever, my darlings, please never let anyone give you advice as to what to do in your personal life. This is not the spiritual way. To give you advice as to how to search your own heart, that's different. To show you what techniques to use to work together with the higher enlightenment and understanding so that you will have and feel a better guidance in your lives, that's one thing. But you see so many of us we want advice and so we fall for the psychic levels of guidance when we get them this way and then others who are psychic themselves the same thing happens they may tune in to some entity or other you see the point is this those who are psychic will almost inevitably be receptive to the entities who are more or less earthbound because that is the vibration closest to earth therefore being psychic is a problem not that people who are spiritual can't also be psychic many are but when they are it's a problem and they have to learn how to differentiate that which comes psychically and that which comes spiritually and that is the thing we try to help you to do in as many ways as we can when we bring up various aspects of this subject because those who are psychic for instance can become aware of some entity who says I am your teacher or I am your master or I have decided to to guide you and to help you uh because I love you or because we're infinities or because we have a karmic relationship or whatever and so what occurs is that somebody who couldn't get any attention on this side and certainly couldn't get anybody to follow his advice on this side his or hers and you know how many people love to tell other people what to do boy they have it they they have it made from the astral plane if they get hold of somebody who's psychic talk about self-expressiveness they have it and the ones who fall for it learned through bitter experience finally not to permit any entity to shall we say guide them there's only one thing that can guide you and that's your own higher soul and that higher soul does have messengers it's true but these messengers come from spiritual planes and levels and they never interfere with your personal life.

I know I have had quite a few people complain to me in relation to myself personally. Well, why doesn't the Master protect you from this or that? Because I have my own problems, as no doubt you must guess we all do. And they seem to think that the Master who guides our work, who is in charge of our evolution, in this particular school of thought, the tabalistic way of return, that he should be protecting me from personal problems, which once in a while knock me for, to use a slang expression, kind of knock me for a loop.

Though I don't stay down very long, but there it is. And they say, why doesn't the master protect you? And then my answer is this.

When a child is learning how to walk, if the mother caught that child every time it's going to fall, would that child ever learn how to walk and use its own muscles?

The fact that I am a channel for the higher spiritual levels of evolution through the Master, the inner school, does that make me less an evolving individual than you?

I mean, the Masters would be doing something absolutely against the laws of the universe if they interfered with my right to make my mistakes, or my right to be foolish and thereby learn and grow and strengthen my spiritual muscles. Which also needs strengthening in their various ways and you see this is true for all of us so never fall into the trap of thinking that somebody that you're going to get some nice little fairy sitting on your shoulder and whatever the form may be chosen as to keep you from making mistakes the thing that you want to do is learn how to tune in to those higher levels where you know the principles of the universe directly, where the will of God and the love of God flows through you so fully, where your perception and intuition, therefore, are functioning. This is the real telepathic influx for those who know, because we have developed the strength and the delicacy of the instrument of our radio set to be able to tune in and therefore express those levels.

And we develop this delicacy only through living, learning, making mistakes, and thereby learning what to avoid and what not to avoid. So you see, physical plane telepathy really has to do with our influence on each other all the time, basically. Those who live close together have much more telepathic influence on each other than those who don't live close together, naturally. Because they're it's pretty much like of two broadcasting stations when they're in the same area you know sometimes you try to tune your station and another one keeps coming in and interfering because they're so close to the same wavelength we've all had that problem when we want one station something else keeps pouring in are the those who live close together have far more of a telepathic influence on each other than those who don't. The most potent telepathic influence that exists is between the Master of Wisdom and his disciple and through the disciples who the rest of the followers are being trained to become disciples in case you'd like to know because the Master of Wisdom has the strongest most intensive kind of projective ability and indeed it's because of this that so many of you, I think most of you who have come regularly for instance, have been able to experience that intensification and awareness of this love essence in love ways. It's because my vehicle has been trained by the inner school to be receptive, telepathically receptive to the love of God through the Master, down through myself and then it pours to you. Well You in turn then start handing it on to the other levels and we are a hierarchy of the outpouring of love because of this influx of what? The telepathic awareness of the unity of life which in essence is love. And then so many of you have become more and more aware for example as you told me of this element of self-understanding, catching your own motivations before they rush you into problem areas of life. Why again is that? Through the same principle, because of the telepathic influx of discrimination, of knowing, with the energy that intensifies, you have been able to learn more, to gain more and more power as an an individual set, more and more delicacy, so that you become aware of the little things.

In other words, you can tune in to the still quiet voices that you can't tune into on a rough set that only has a few tubes, instead of one of these beautiful little complex businesses that we might think of as being analogous to. So you see, in all ways, really, it's telepathy that is functioning. Now you might say, well isn't there such a thing as original thought? I mean does every thought I receive something that's come from somebody or somewhere else and every emotion, is it from somebody or somewhere else? The point is this, there's really only one thought and that's the Universal Self. There's really only one emotion basically and that is the Universal Love. In its complex manifoldness it has many parts or aspects into this unified oneness and certainly you are an original thinker only to the degree incidentally that you become aware of the higher self doing the thinking in you and through you that is from the spiritual plane down in and expressed through there's no such thing as real original thought on the physical plane or the psychic plane that is it doesn't originate there it expresses there true original thought originates only on the spiritual level of the divine will and the divine projection of its self-expression and to the degree that we we reach for that and learn how to receive that and express that to that degree then are we expressing originality and you know what happens our personalities become utterly infinitely more charming because they're so much more original of course some people won't like the idea that our personalities are charmingly original they'll become jealous and when people become jealous what do they do they want to tear you down but you know I forget who it was who said um I don't remember how it was put at the moment, but the idea was this, that anyone who really has something, who really has power, is going to be either loved or hated.

He's not going to be ignored.

And you see, this was true of Jesus, wasn't it? Because there are those levels, there are those lower evolutionary levels who can't help, they respond with antagonism towards something that they can't understand. That is, a higher love, a beauty element in life. That's their level, and the repercussions of that level will make them grow. So you see, trying to go off into this pie-in-the-sky, buy-and-buy idea, you know, or these fairy tale aspects of evolution, doesn't really help us. What we want to realize is this, that it is vital for ourselves that we avoid being in the company of those types of people who are emotionally intense on the lower or more or less insane levels of evolution. If our karma is such that we must be in touch, close touch with one or more such types, then we need to that much more withdraw as often as possible to be replenished from the spiritual levels because we're going through a very strenuous test.

I think one of the most strenuous tests that we can have, incidentally. We must therefore withdraw that much more often, as we said, to bathe in the higher spiritual levels, to receive the strength and the love and the replenishment of our own center so it doesn't get pushed off guard, so to speak, and doesn't get pushed into this hatred and irritation.

And remember this. From the psychic level, for instance, if a person has a tendency to be an alcoholic, through telepathy, our earthbound spirits will gather around the alcoholic and telepathically keep pushing and pushing him to go into a bar or get a bottle and drink. So that whatever our weakness is, we attract telepathically those those who are in harmony with that weakness. And it can get worse and worse until it gets so bad that we're driven to look for an answer, and then we grow. You see, sooner or later, such a soul is driven to look for a higher answer. Now, why is it that an earthbound alcoholic soul will do this? Because, you see, it's still earthbound, and it still has the thirst for alcohol, being an alcoholic. And it cannot satisfy its thirst because it hasn't got a body.

So it tunes in to that which is in harmony with itself and it slinks its own thirst uh by in a sense you might say telepathically experiencing with the under other individual the alcoholic influence and spirits the same thing occurs on the spiritual plane except it's a reverse occurrence. He who holds himself to spiritual aspiration, he who keeps strengthening himself with all the various methods that there are that have been given to you as a blessing in order to strengthen yourself, such a person keeps receiving ever more strengthening from the spiritual plane so that finally even like Jesus he can command the waters to be still and the winds to be still. This is symbolic though, you know. It's the waters and the winds of our own personality, of our own washing natures. The fact is that every single one of us can and are being influenced by the highest spiritual level at all times. The strength of this influence depends on how hard we work to to develop an ever more sensitized radio system within ourselves to learn how to control our own thinking and feeling to put it in harmony with that highest level.

And as we work with that idea, realizing that angers, hatreds, all sorts of emotions that wash are not necessarily ours. Let them go. Let them go. They're part of the mass mind. You don't have to accept them. You don't have to own them. Accept only that as yours, which comes from the highest planes of life, that which gives you insight, discrimination, perception, love, and awareness. And when you leave the temple this morning, as you go out, instead of saying, oh, still cloudy, look up and and say the silveriness, the beauty of the silveriness of this day is in essence the beauty being emanated down, the love being emanated down and through the hierarchy to me and I choose to respond with an outpouring of gratitude for that guidance rather than let my own emotions get into lower states where I'm pushed around by the telepathic impact of the lower psychic and the physical level plane.

I hope you have a little more understanding of the principles of telepathy than you did. We'll talk about it some more through various talks.
