...to talk about the evidence of survival from the inner plane.

Of course, we realize that those who are in occultism, especially in a work such as ours, certainly have an acceptance of survival. At least, shall we say, such an acceptance exists in the intellect or in the mind. Though for many, it's difficult to feel it emotionally, don't you think? For various reasons there are many aspirants including many non-aspirants certainly who though they see that evidence for survival is indicated somehow find it difficult to believe with the deeper part of their being and when the deeper part of the being isn't really believing or accepting or shall we say knowing really knowing it somehow it creates quite a problem in our whole life on the physical plane even though we don't recognize it as such because you see survival in itself indicates that there isn't anything we've ever done there isn't anything we've ever thought there isn't anything we've ever been that doesn't have to be balanced out in some way or other if that is we actually accept survival because if survival is a fact then no matter what happens to the body no matter what happens to our physical relationship to life itself on the physical plane there is something that it is vitally important to become conversant with to become aware of because without the idea of survival of course we certainly could agree with Shakespeare when he said it's a tale told by an idiot and at any rate that is not the reason to believe in survival in actuality we have evidence scientific evidence and we have had it really down through the ages that survival is a fact that is survival of what let's think for a moment certainly it can't be survival of the physical body because the physical body becomes an inert piece of matter it becomes a disorganized unit it the moment the person is said to be dead and gradually it just dissolves really in essence the consciousness that has held it together in other words that has held a certain thought or a certain framework upon which the various atoms and spiritual energies played their music or played their symphonies played their parts in order to show force or reflect a physical vehicle when that consciousness has been withdrawn there's nothing to hold this organization together because it's organization of energy and so the energy that's been organized around a certain thought or shall we say thought form uh being withdrawn the thought form gradually dissolves and on the physical plane we see it as the decomposition of matter and that is the reason that you have decomposition Composition in essence the consciousness which in souls or holds the form together Has withdrawn from that concentration That doesn't mean that the consciousness that made the form in the first place is gone It's only gone from a certain area of expression. Now, how do we know this?

We are just stating a fact at the moment which you have no way of Proving nor have you any reason to accept it except for the fact that we have had evidence of the most fantastic kind indicating the survival of consciousness without its physical vehicle. Of course, really, when we talk about survival, we need to also keep in mind the theories of reincarnation and certainly with that then of karma, which is the principle of growth in itself. Nevertheless, for our talk this morning, we will not discuss reincarnation, basically, nor will we discuss karma in its usual essence when applied to reincarnation, because we feel that you need a little bit of a boost in your faith. We feel that you need to develop more of an actual knowingness in relation to the fact that you survive. The point is, you survive. What your consciousness whatever it is in you that says I whatever it is in you that can go back in its memory and say at such as such a year I was a child and during another certain period of my life I had this experience and that experience that which is the I that has the picture of the the motion of your experiences, this is a thing that you need to know survives. So we're going to give you a few case histories of which certainly indicate survival and indicate it in a fantastic manner in order to help you remind yourself of this whenever you think that maybe life isn't so worthwhile after all, whenever you feel discouraged, whenever you feel hopeless, for you to be able to remember that this is just a passing phase in something in you which is eternal and therefore survives. The first case history I'd like to tell you about is one that our grand prologator Felix Frazier personally investigated. This is about a very elderly lady who was quite wealthy. He went to speak to her when he heard about this case history and he got the entire details from her and from the attorney who was her attorney so that there was complete verification of this very startling case. This woman was quite elderly. She had a very complex group of holdings stocks and bonds and savings and real estate just about everything that one could have. Groups of monies involved in various endeavors as well as businesses.

And she felt it was certainly time to make her will because she was getting close to the sunset of her incarnation. She did not believe in incarnation or reincarnation, I should say. She had no knowledge of survival. She had no interest in or knowledge of metaphysics in general. This is one of the interesting things about this case, so that there was nothing in the line of suggestibility to have been working with her. Now, this particular woman had a talk with her attorney and spoke to him about a need for a will, but a will which would be a very complex will, since she had a great many heirs, both close relatives and not-so-close relatives, and other things she wanted done with her money, which would require tremendous detailed allotment of her funds, and therefore a great many of the legal elements had to be exactly right.

So she made an appointment with her attorney who told her this would be a rather difficult task.

And as she went to bed that night, she started to think about her grandfather.

And she thought to herself, her grandfather had been a brilliant attorney and he had specialized in things like trust deeds and stocks and bonds.

Uh the business type of eternity attorney and how she longed for him wished that he she had him there with her to help her uh in this complex affair of making out the kind of will that she wanted to uh but knowing of course that it was hopeless she went on to bed but after she got to bed she found that she wasn't able to go to sleep because uh somebody kept shaking her and insisting that she get up and pick up a pencil. She felt like she was in a semi-dreamlike state, incidentally. Nevertheless, she was not asleep. So she got up and sat down at her desk and picked up a pencil and wrote for several hours, at least two hours, after which she was at peace, went back to bed and slept. In the morning, she remembered all this writing she had done in the night, and she picked up this sheaf of papers and found all sorts of legalisms that had no meaning to her whatsoever not only the whereases and their two fours but all sorts of intricate details that have to do with the legal language a very specialized language I think you realize she was quite bewildered about this nevertheless she put it into her purse she went on and had her appointment with the attorney, her attorney. Her attorney was having a great deal of difficulty understanding her or getting some of the ideas down. Finally they came to a standstill.

Well, on an impulse she pulled out the sheaf of papers. He looked at it and turned white. He read it through page after page after page, and he told her that this was the most perfect legal document he had ever seen or heard of, but one of the very astonishing peculiarities about it was this. It was written in the archaic legal language of the several generations ago of her grandfather.

Furthermore, it took care of every last detail of her holdings. In it, everything she wanted or didn't want was completely taken care of so that it was a completely hidebound will which could never be broken under any conditions and the will was probated as such not a comma not a period not a colon was changed now we said our darling Felix Frazier himself investigated this case and he is a very objective honest and scientific individual reassure you what does this particular case indicate. This is startling, you know. Certainly we cannot say that this woman's subconsciousness was able to do this, because look at the archaic language of that particular time, and the perfect knowledge of all the legal essentials that were required. Remember, she went to bed wishing that she had her grandfather's knowledge. Certainly this would indicate that her grandfather had not only survived but had managed and this is most unusual of course he had managed to make contact with her to the degree where through what is called automatic writing he was able to help her in this problem of hers and there we have one of the cases we wanted you to hear about to help you realize that consciousness survives now the next case comes actually, I don't know how many of you have read the Dr. Rhine's book on parapsychology, but this particular case history comes from Mrs. Rhine, Dr. Rhine's wife, who has been his co-worker and co-scientist in all the parapsychology experiments. Now in this particular case, a woman was left widowed with one child who was four years old, a son, and was feeling tremendously bereaved and very troubled also about finances. One afternoon very shortly after the death of her husband the little boy picked up a pencil and just started to scribble and he scribbled away and scribbled away.

Finally his mother told him to put down the pencil and go play which he did she took the paper and threw it into the wastebasket I believe that's what she did I'm not clear on that detail at any rate it so happened that someone there she was at that time staying at a hotel someone there happened to see this paper and picked it up and much to his astonishment saw that it was shorthand but it wasn't regular shorthand. It was the very old-fashioned block type of shorthand, different from the modern shorthand that was being taught in that period. And because this man knew shorthand, he read the document, which started with an endearment to the bereaved wife, and gave information about a, what do you call those, a safety deposit box which he did not know he had in which were further securities and help for her. Now the point in this particular story of course is this. First of all a little four-year-old boy writing shorthand is quite astonishing in itself. Writing old-fashioned shorthand is quite astonishing in itself.

Giving information that was only in the mind of the deceased. Don't forget, no one else had this information. Only the one who was over the border had gone into the happy or unhappy lands, depending on how highly or lowly evolved he was, we might say. And here is another aspect to this case. Investigation showed that her husband as a young boy had studied the old-fashioned block shorthand and there you have it what excuse is one going to give or what is one going to say in relation to such a case as this it throws every other possible explanation out the window except the fact that this widow's husband survived that he survived and he was troubled he was troubled about the welfare of his wife and his child he was troubled because he had not left information regarding her complete financial well-being which would help her and he managed to get this information across in the most startling manner we can imagine why it was done this way we cannot tell you certainly it is another incident a case history of survival which I think I should make us pause not once but often make us realize that all those we have ever known ever known who have died have not died at all it should make us realize that they exist just as surely as we exist at this moment even though their existence is not centered on a physical plane and in a physical vehicle.

What does it mean to us then when we can say survival has been proven and actually you know every human being who has a really good objective scientific mind and has who has looked into the records of the scientific research societies in the various recordings that have been made of the case histories which prove survival everyone who has truly investigated this should be able to say I am never going to die I am going to survive when I drop this physical body furthermore my near and dear ones are never going to die they are going to survive when they drop this physical vehicle what then does this mean it means that it's terribly important for us to instill within ourselves those values those abilities and those powers which we will be able to use when we drop the physical body in other words to store up for ourselves the treasures that we can take to heaven or the astral plane and of course you can't take your treasures to hell can you I wonder I suppose some of you have heard this little story about the man who died and after he woke up he found himself in this gorgeous mansion and a gentleman dressed rest impeccably came to over to him and said I am your private phallic I am here to do anything and everything you want done you will never have to work again you won't have to do anything I'm going to take care of everything for you as your private phallic and attendant and the man thought oh glory hallelujah and so on I don't know whether he said praise the lord but and so commenced the period where when he was hungry, why food was brought to him. When he was finished eating, the food was taken from him. If a drop of food got on his chin, the valet very attentively wiped it off for him. When he went to bed, the bed sheets were laid open and he was put into his pajamas. And when he woke up in the morning, he was dressed and wasn't even allowed to tie a shoelace, because when he would attempt it the valet would say oh no sir that isn't permitted here you know and so every little last thing was done for him if he wanted a flower I wanted to go out to pick a flower no it was brought to him and this went on for quite some time and gradually our man became more and more bored more and more miserable and finally very rebellious and decided he wants to go out and do some of these things for himself. Every time he would attempt it though the valet would stop him cold and say, oh no sir this isn't permitted here. Finally he blew up and he said, my god, he said, I might just as well have gone to hell. And the valet looked at him with astonishment and said, but my dear sir, wherever in the world did you think you were? As I said, some of you may have heard me tell this story, but for the sake of the rest of you I thought it should be told here because it has to do then with, again, survival.

In essence, we've been giving you a few little incidents of evidence for survival. Nevertheless, this talk would not be complete, would it, if we did not also point out to you what this evidence for survival implies, actually as taught in our holy Qabalah and in all the real esoteric schools of thought.

The death of the physical vehicle leaves us unchanged as far as our abilities are concerned, as far as our emotional capacities, our mental abilities and capacities, and so on. Therefore, whatever we are here, we are also there. This being the case, if we are completely concerned concerned with material and physical things here. This is what we will be there, except that we will be in a very frustrated position because there's no way to do anything about the material things on the other side. Furthermore, it keeps us from building our environment as we We need to build it on the other side of the veil. Because you see, the astral plane, basically, is really the plane of that which you have already become up to this point.

I mean, this is just one way of putting it. The essence of what you are is what expresses itself on the astral plane. And it may surprise you to know that a vast majority of individuals, when they die just float around in a half-conscious state there pretty much like they do here.

And if you'll ponder a moment you'll realize how how many if not perhaps the majority of human beings just let their minds and emotions meander around in a dreamlike state. If you're that way here, are you that way there? And And of course, it's only in and through a physical vehicle that we can develop the sharpness of attention, the control of the forces that make up our subtle vehicles, so that we can continue to function consciously on that side of the veil, as we're trying to learn how to do on this side of the veil. And only the degree to which we've attained consciousness must hear. Will we have it there except for one particular kind of unusual situation? And that is mainly this. Those aspirants who have really worked hard with particular disciplines and have managed to reach the linkage with the inner school through initiation into the chapter, and that is what I hope you are all working for those of you who have not already managed at least to get that far this particular linkage gives such an intensification of the total being that when one drops the physical vehicle once you are linked to the inner school which remember means you're being linked to the hierarchy which works unceasingly for evolution on the other side even if you still have certain weaknesses in conscious attention, the group who are on the other side, because in the inner school we have some who are on this plane and there are certainly many who are on the other plane, they gather together and they do special work because they are able to draw from the higher planes due to the hierarchy of this linkage.

And because of having reached the point where this initiation has been possible, They are able to aid an aspirant who reaches a certain place in his or her own growth to develop an ability to work consciously in order to be able to continue to serve on the other side as well as here and in order also to continue to expand in awareness on the other side as well as here through that service. So you see when Jesus said, lay not up your treasures where dust and moths doth corrupt, he was speaking about something far more profound than many of us realize. And furthermore we must always keep in mind that the kind of experience we have on the other side, on the astral, is exactly in accordance with with our basic innate love nature and mental nature also. Because, you see, the moment we drop our physical vehicle, the first thing that happens, of course, is a recapitulation of our lifetime.

And the soul watches and sees where it made errors, what it's learned, what still needs to be done. In other words, it's a whole picture, like a moving picture that takes place in a very few moments usually, though sometimes it takes a couple of days in terms of our time it depends on the individual there is this recapitulation of the lifetime after which usually there is a sleep and of course for those who have not been spiritually oriented the sleep is very long indeed it's like staying in a torpor you might say until almost time for the next reincarnation but for those who have been working at spiritual attainment those who have been willing to go through the disciplines because it's spiritual disciplines that make you attain as you know and not the six easy lessons it's learning how to live the spiritual ideal in and through this physical universe this is the way the vibrational elements in our own inner nature come to such a state that when we pass on to the other side our vibrations draw us like like magnetic attraction to our own level and there there's no way of some people playing like they're spiritual although you know what they are really like or vice versa there what you are automatically takes you just by the gravitational attraction of your own vibrational level to your level where everyone is pretty much exactly like yourself as far as level is concerned although the uniqueness of course of each center of consciousness remains but the torpor or sleep state continues for tremendously long periods of time in relation to those who have just marched around in a sleep state here and what is it being in a sleep state here needing to sit hypnotized in front of a tv set every spare moment of one's time forever rushing for recreation recreation in other words getting away from yourself getting away from yourself in every way you can. When you do that on the other plane, you are getting away from yourself. You're asleep, just like you are here, because this is a sleep state. Spiritual attainment is learning how to become ever more conscious, and that's what we do with the tarot, as you know. That's how we, what we do with the tree, through the tarot. And incidentally, the work we are now doing regularly with the use of the words of power, the intonation of the divine name, and the Qabalistic chant, all this is aimed at intensifying your consciousness at intensifying it to that point so that you will never throughout eternity be able to fall into the zombie sleep state on the other side or even this one although in this one I mean it's inevitable that we have periods where we do have to have that kind of relaxation but we are working to help you not only here but hereafter we are working to help you as a total thing that's why it is important that you realize that survival is a fact and to the degree that you attain in this incarnation in this body to that degree are you going to make for yourselves not only a more beautiful environment on the physical plane but you're going to have the capacity to have that beautiful environment on the astral plane and you'll be able to reach and be wafted into the spiritual planes which incidentally are above the astral planes and what we're really working for nevertheless I we felt you should have some idea of what the astral plane involves after death especially in terms of survival and incidentally I should like to add my my bit of knowledge to the fact that no one or no creature truly can die. I have to raise my voice in affirmation of this as something that I know rather than something that I believe because it has been my privilege to have very complete inner contact for example with Dr.

Case since he passed on but not incidentally on from the astral plane that is completely from the higher spiritual plane which gives a different type of contact you know when you are in contact with someone who has passed over from the spiritual plane level the you do not receive the kind of detailed messages like the ones we told you about your contact is more direct mind to mind and yet it is more real it is more complete than is the kind of communication when we use words because the impact has an intensity beyond anything we can describe it's like the one consciousness and another consciousness merging into a mutual knowing not in losing itself but in communicating but it has to communicate in an abstract sense as a principle and then the personality takes this communication and weaves it around and brings it out in terms of words but the words are always inadequate you know and that's why I always feel frustrated after every lecture after every talk after every class no matter how many of you come to me and say I received so much from this class or this talk I have a sense of frustration because I have received it through a direct perception which is so complete and I know that there's no way to get the full sense of that out in terms of words and that's why we work also at projecting to you from the higher and inner planes you know these realizations which you have been receiving more and more and that's why again we've been trying to heighten your consciousness so that you receive from all those higher spiritual planes which contain both the those who have gone over and exist on the spiritual planes as well as those who exist on the astral planes now when I said that I too can vouch for the fact that as far as I'm concerned survival is of course you must realize this contact with Dr. Case would be inevitable since we had this close rapport as a channel but I can also say to you that I know without question at least I'd say as at least 20 individuals who died presumably and who are as alive if not more alive than you and I where I have been able to be part of the verification of the survival of their memory their beingness the fact that they were their birth dates as well as their death dates their accomplishments and so on I have this very personal knowledge and have personally participated in this verification and I want you then to realize that if I can say to you I who was against the idea of survival I who was against the idea of reincarnation those of you who haven't heard me say it before don't be shocked I entered a cultism after a certain period not in the same mood that most aspirants do as far as I was concerned I thought I thought life was such pain that the greatest most wonderful thing one can think of is to know that at at least eventually, there is nothing.

There is absolute erasure of everything, no consciousness. And to me, the idea of survival and reincarnation, which meant perhaps more pain for the world and life, seemed such a terrible thing. I preferred to prove that it was not so. So you see, I was not subject to the illusions and the delusions that most people would be in this field. And when I became convinced, this is really something extraordinary. And therefore when I say to you that I know all the evidence has proven beyond any question of a doubt that you are not going to die ever that when you drop this physical vehicle you are going to find yourself as much alive if not more alive than you ever were when I say this to you I ask you to try to take from me and from the inner school through me that sense of the feeling of your eternalness of your eternalness as something that not only always will be but always was and just this very knowledge is going to make every relationship more meaningful to you going to make you think twice about some of the things you might be prone to do at another time it's going to make those you love more dear to you because you'll know that you've loved before and will love again it's going to make everything more magical knowing that you can never die and your love can never die and if you will remind yourself of this through every one of your days and nights as often as you can you will find that your own inner knowing your own inner verifications will come to you and sometimes in very strange ways. Remember then you are immortal. Walk in this immortality. Know that it has been proven from every level. Know that the Spirit of God which is your consciousness is that which is inevitably going to achieve the highest state of control and knowingness because because of the fact that you cannot fail you die you you're reborn and you achieve and it is our prayer and our hope that you will manage to achieve not in a future incarnation but through this one and the time when the time comes to drop the physical vehicle this is what we're working for with you and for you
