And, of course, keep in mind that the Fool, which we have kept above each of the tableaus, is a part of all the work we're doing. That it is actually an aspect of every one of the principles, every one of the laws and agencies through which the principles work, every one of the effects, results, or stages of spiritual unfoldment. So we just leave him there to inspire you, to remind you, and then continue with the various other elements involved.

Now recall that we have covered what we consider, you would say, three circles of the spiral up until tonight. The first, second, and third stages of spiritual unfoldment, each taking us another step along the way towards the...

Final goal in whatever area we are considering. Remember also what we said to you, that in essence you cannot say that any particular individual has attained to this stage or that stage or the other stage at this point anyway. Because, for instance, in our mental evolution, some may have attained to a stage which might represent the fourth, fifth, sixth stage of spiritual unfoldment. And yet, in one particular part of the mental outlook or perception, there may still be the blind spot, the undeveloped element, which will be going through all the other stages in order to get the entire mental evolution evolved. And then on the other hand, you might have a more complex development with the emotional evolution, that is, the emotional balance that needs to take place with the mental. And then you have your spiritual insights and perceptions, which have to do with the mental and emotional elements, since they never exclude them.

So we cannot become rigid. We want to keep our minds and our hearts fluidic. We want to be able to say that in this particular problem or this particular pattern, perhaps we are struggling with the devil. And yet, in another part of our nature, we may very well be dancing with the dancer of c21 that is have a quite full perception and realization of the element involved in that line of experience in our nature whether it has to do with an ability or a capacity say for relationships or whether it has to do with an ability to handle our material environment in terms of our vocation or profession, whether it has to do with our ability or our capacity to express the maternal or the paternal, the receptive or the expressive elements.

All of these things are involved.

And, of course, when we come to those who are really seriously involved involved in the occult development, those who have truly, with their souls as well as their minds, determined to follow the various stages of spiritual unfoldment and to let nothing swerve them no matter what comes or doesn't come. These individuals, incidentally, are usually asked to have the major part of their natures Somewhere within the particular stage of unfoldment we are representing here, that which we call the fourth stage. That is, it is in the process of activity which is usually more accented, even though there may be other parts of the nature which, as we pointed out, may be in the different stages of development, as it's being prepared to develop into a wholeness, a balance, a fullness.

So here we are covering the fourth stage, and we will remind you then, in order to get ourselves out of any possible groove of the third stage, to be sure we're not stuck in the record, let's remember that the third stage of spiritual unfoldment the actual effect or result had to do with revelation or realization also with meditation which you remember we called the natural intelligence and we point out to you that in essence all human beings are in a state of shall we say, meditation.

Though they don't realize it as such, because all human beings have evolved a type of consciousness which is in a state of fishing, continuously fishing, in its environment, between people, in its relationships, in its aspirations. It is meditating, fishing, searching for whatever answers or whatever fulfillment it may want.

And please remember we pointed out to you that the way we realize our environment is what becomes, shall we say, the truth for us.

And that is why revelation could be called truth. And yet what is true for us is not true for someone else. Because for instance, if you happen to think very highly of human beings, and thinking highly of human beings, have quite a deep-rooted expectation that at least most human beings are going to be nice, kind, sweet, lovable, enjoyable, and so on. I bet some of you are saying to yourself, oh, you dreamer, you.

Nevertheless, some of us have that kind of dreaming, perhaps, or maybe not so dreamlike, deep-rooted conviction.

This type of person we will find usually experiences as reality. This very conviction.

In other words, they are continuously having revelations from the natural intelligence bringing out and expressing their grasp. And remember, in the previous stage of spiritual unfoldment, it's Tarot Key Number 10, the closed fist, which is the activity, the law, the agency, which means comprehension, and grasp, the fifth, the grasp. Therefore, it is their grasp of that situation which brings about their particular realization. On the other hand, surely we all know that there are others who know what human beings are, and the only way they'll express it is in three letters, which they stretch out into words, and they don't use the letters a good deal of the time.

Definitely and emotionally express their deep-rooted conviction, their grasp of human nature. And of course, they are always having the revelations, which bring about a definite verification of their grasp of the situation, and therefore, in their world, human beings, on the whole, do act exactly like you-know-what for them. So you see, What is reality? What is revelation? What is truth?

Here, you can see that two opposite points of view are true, depending from where you stand.

And, of course, the whole theory of relativity is based on that. And that's why the natural intelligence of Key 17, which is our previous stage of spiritual involvement, the third stage, this natural intelligence is a very clever way to express the idea because we just naturally are what we experience.

And we just naturally experience what we are. All nature unfolds itself for us, unveils itself for us in accordance with our grasp. Of the condition, the situation, life, and so on.

Now then, we have the next stage to consider.

And this is key four. Now, Tarot key four, as principle, remember, which follows for the next circling on the spiral of unfoldment, Tarot key number four represents, He presents, kabbalistically, what is called the constituting intelligence. You all know what the Constitution is. And constituting, that's the one who frames the Constitution, when you consider the constituting intelligence. And here we see the emperor, which is what? The ruler, framing the Constitution as his world. Now the same principle exists in terms of the universe that is the divine emperor constituting the divine laws and rules and we as expressions or aspects or children also have our expression we too are then the rulers constituting our world and carrying it then from the previous parakeet of the actual stage or level of unfoldment we can see that that which life reveals to us whatever the background has been is what makes us frame our rule our laws and make and makes us govern on ourselves and our world in terms of what life has revealed to us in, shall we say, meditations, whether they've been unconscious meditations or conscious meditations.

So this is one aspect of it, but it goes even further.

The Qabalistic attribution for this particular Hebrew letter is, first of all, window. Now, what is a window? A window is something you look out from, isn't it? So you see your world through the window.

Now, vision is assigned to this tarot, tabalistically, in terms of the Hebrew letter.

And vision is what? Well, actually, this has to do with both physical sight and inner metaphysical or perceptive sight. If you will remember, the first stage of spiritual unfoldment, the devil, Tarot Key 15, was the eye as the organ of vision. That's the result. That's a sense that's being used, an outer thing, being utilized for getting in touch or with something or other. Here we have the principle, which is different.

That is, it is different in essence. So nothing is different in another way, because all things are an expression of that one power.

But the seeing, you see, the real seeing, is done with the back of the head, as surely you all know. So that the eye of the organ of vision definitely shows the outer thing whereas sight would without question must deal with the back of the head since that's what we see this as we pointed out to you now of course it's curious thing but the Qabalists should have known this isn't it untold numbers of centuries ago going into thousands of years and we can prove it to you right here and now in this series because tarot key number 18 here which is the effect the result the stage of spiritual unfolding assigned to the hebrew letter kof the meaning of kof tabalistically is this back of the head literally the back of the head actually referring to the medulla obligata which is right at the top of the base of the spine and back of the head and that is the part of our consciousness which is often also called the instinctual consciousness it is that part of the consciousness which builds the body runs the body and all of the myriad and intricate miracles of chemical interchanges in every way shape from form. It's done by that part of our brain, not that the brain does it, but that part of our brain is the instrument through which the principle of expressing a physical vehicle and the principle of keeping a physical vehicle in function, that is the instrument which works it.

Now the principle then in Tarot Key number 4 which involves sight and vision also showing although we skipped the middle but we'll go back to that the lower agency through which it works when we see it in terms then of the effect or the result before considering the rest of the series as the back of the head which is the body building consciousness because Koch the Hebrew letter for the 18th key is called corporeal intelligence by Qabalah from the paths of wisdom and by corporeal intelligence they mean what the body body consciousness or that which is consciousness of body and consciousness of body really means that that which builds and maintains the consciousness of body, since always it is the consciousness which is involved or does it. So you see, the back of our head is what we really see with.

And some of you may think maybe that's why people are so backward in what they see.

Well no if they really learn to see properly with the back of their head they would be anything but backwards our problem is that we do not know how to interpret life properly as yet a good deal of the time and that is why vision is so involved with proper interpretation which remember comes about through the previous series which has to do with comprehension because our comprehension which brings the realizations or revelation is what gives us our vision or in other words we We see that which we have already interpreted.

In other words, we say, I love you, but I see you as beautiful.

Now, I don't see you as beautiful first and then love you afterwards, although it may seem so to some people. The reverse is true. In the same manner, all sorts of conditions arise.

We give it a backward interpretation. Now then, the king, the emperor, the ruler is that which has the vision, that which sees what really is. In other words, the realities from the previous series. And seeing what really is. Here we have the principle which brings about the next activity, actually, though we'll be returning round and round as we've done now with each series you see what we we're doing deliberately is continue continuously jumping from key to key to key and round again to show you that real uh development of perception and understanding and growth of consciousness comes about by learning how to keep the attention going in a specific spiral or circle and we learn it very easily when we use the principles of Tarot which already have the whole idea embodied within the way they've been worked out by the adept who gave them as a gift to humanity so many years ago now the law or agency to which constituting intelligence this vision happens to work is assigned to justice now of course we can think of an emperor or ruler as being expected to express justice you know you go to the head or to the ruler when you want equilibrium established in something that you think is unfair fair and then he makes his decree he not only frames the laws he gives the decrees doesn't he so it has always been no matter what type of government uh you have in the world whether it's a monarchy or whether it's an elect an elective head it's still a head who is the ruler except that one may be a ruler by election one through birth uh and hereditary factors which the culture has decided upon, you still have the working out of justice in terms of that ruler.

And we have had some rulers, as we know when we think of it in its political sense, who have been thought of as tyrants, and we have had other rulers who have been thought of as beneficent and great, true and just, depending again on what level of evolution has been involved, both for the culture and for the individuals involved. Now, Tarot Key Number 11, Justice, interestingly enough, is the exact middle of the Tarot series, you know. With the 22 Tarot Keys, The 11 divides both the beginning and the end. So it's the central key. It's the equalibrating factor in everything that's involved. And one of the Qabalistic attributions is equilibrium.

Now another one is action.

And another one is the idea of karma and works.

Works. This is very important. The Hebrew letter itself is named ox-goed, and so we point you again to the fool. Remember that the Qabalistic meaning for Olex, the fool, is ox. Here in the middle, equilibrating part of this series, we have the ox-goed. Now what is an ox goes uh well we can say it's that which goes the ox and then we get an idea of something pushing a creature and this is exactly what the principle that we've been seeing in key 4 does in terms of agency and action in C11. Because it is our way of constituting our world and our relationship. It is our way of seeing, and this is the vision, it is our window out on the world which brings about the goad.

And the goad, you know, is what? It's the compulsion. So that every one of us we know we look in our hearts we know that the most important things we've done in our lives we have been aware of as being a sort of compulsion within ourselves isn't it so for instance when we've fallen in love ah how many of you made up your minds intellectually ah now I'm going to fall in love But if you did, and thought you fell in love, you're mistaken.

You were off in a dream world. You were not constituting, nor were you analyzing anything correctly.

So key four as principle, here is the most vital part of it that we're going to bring up now, is attributed to reason. That is the reasoning faculties of the mind and remember the reasoning faculties of the mind these are what always constitute that which is going to goad us or compel us into the various attitudes actions they are going to be the spurs which may bring us our pains or sorrows depending pending on how well our reasoning faculties have developed. And one of our greatest problems, as you know, as we've brought out so often, is that we all have no doubt at all that if the rest of the world would share in our capacity for proper reasoning, we would have something near to utopia taking place on this planet.

And we all have this complete conviction in our hearts, even though some of us may be secret about it and even though some of us may have a need to be proud of our humility by pointing out that we don't think we have so excellent a mind which is just inviting others to assure us that they see that it is as excellent as we secretly know it is.

Because the one thing we cannot bear in our secret heart of hearts no matter how much we'll say well after all I'm just not very smart the one thing we cannot bear is for anyone to think we are not very smart and it has to be isn't that really so and you know of course I share this whole attitude with you and if we want to go home happy tonight we can just make a mutual agreement that of course we have it and it's just the rest of the world that ought to start following our example nevertheless this is really the the heart, the real heart of our problem at this stage of the spiritual unfoldment in most of Christ.

Even though we must keep in mind we have these other practices that may be less or more developed, our ability and capacity to reason accurately. Now if you will go over in your own mind the whole series of the first three stages of spiritual unfoldment the principle activity and agency through which it works and results squirrel it around in your own mind mentally in your own thinking and in your own processes of analysis If you do that, you will see that the degree of attention which began the principles, that is the magician, the degree of attention, real attention, objective attention, incidentally, we have been able to give any situation, whether it be ourselves, our own thinking and feeling, or other people's thinking and feeling or the situation, the degree of real objective attention we've been able to give that situation has been the root of what has finally developed in terms of our reasoning faculties. Now of course whatever situation you may be in, it is quite true you will wonder whether you are reasoning it out correctly while you are in a problem. You will usually not be as caught up in the sureness of your reasoning faculties as you are at other times. That is why you are in a specific problem. The reason for this is you're not quite sure which way to go. You're not quite sure whether the the direction you go in is going to be hurtful or otherwise.

And it is the need to avoid hurt, that is, to avoid the goes of Key 11, that actually really keeps us a little more centered in an ability to reason as accurately as we can, or when we can. Because we have found out by this time that poor reasoning brings with it very painful results indeed and poor reasoning does more than that poor reasoning brings with it not only painful results but it brings the development of a an inferior kind of individuality. In other words, our rulership over our own individuality, our rulership over our own environment, our rulership over our own condition, situation, relationship, is always as weak, incidentally, as is our reasoning faculty. And you know why? Why? Because if we see incorrectly, what we see incorrectly will goad us into action in relation to the other person. Let's just give some foolish examples to show how it works. For instance, suppose a man doesn't trust his wife.

And so he reasons, and she is going somewhere, she has some appointment. Well, if he doesn't trust his wife, his reasoning faculties will go this way.

In as much as she is not trustworthy, in as much as I don't think she has it in her to be faithful to me, it's likely she's going to meet perhaps a lover.

Now, if she's going to do that, I'd better find out. And so some men will hire a detective for instance also the right versus it goes in either direction so they might hire a detective if they're that type of person or they might pace up and down up and down and really throw themselves into the most beautiful state talk about corporeal intelligence the result you know that will affect the way it affects the body everything in the the emotional area you know thrown right into the physical vehicle and corporeal intelligence remember is the physical body whether it is in your personal body or your environmental body so let's say he's pacing up and down and throwing himself or herself into several kinds of uh an emotional stew and uh finally say she came back now what she may have been doing was going out or he to buy a secret birthday present or a secret anniversary present to surprise the dear one with but you see dear one wasn't being very dear because he walks in or he walks in and uh shall we say uh in terms of the 15th tarot key there's hell to pay because you have a theme and you have remonstrances. In other words, the goad. This, Tarot 11, the ox goad. The compulsion has been such because the emotion that has been set going due to the salacious reasoning has goaded that individual into the compulsion, into the activity, because that's work, activity, 11, remember, which bring about the results whatever they happen to be depends on the quality of course of the previous two things so you have your results which are firmly embedded in the corporeal intelligence that is every single cell in the body absorbs the kind of thinking feeling and reasoning and our whole body is really what you might call a colony something like an ant egg or a beehive.

Our physical body is analogous to that. And it's a colony of little intelligences who have taken on the reasoning and expectation and feeling of the ruler, which you always are in any case, whether you're going to pace up and down knowing that the he or the she involved is doing something horrible, whereas the very reverse might be true, or vice versa, incidentally. We are just lacking in proper reasoning faculty when we figure somebody is going off shopping to do something to bring us a lovely gift because they love us, when in actuality they may be out trying to cut our throats. Because, remember, they're from human beings on an evolutionary level, where this is their compulsion to do something of that kind. And our degree of vision has to do again with our proper ability to see and therefore reason what the situation is like. He who can reason properly usually has a very balanced kind of emotional nature on the whole. Balanced in this way today since the dead place not that they will not get indignant and uh as a matter of fact um when necessary you somewhat like jesus did take a whiff and get the money changer or two out of the temple you know like a hypocrite or whatnot not people get the idea and this again is poor reasoning people get the idea that in order to be spiritual you know you have to show what's called a sweet disposition and that what their idea of a sweet disposition is letting somebody somebody walk over them, take advantage of them, and steal from them or from others, and they think they're being very spiritual as they sigh martyr-like and turn another chief and they'll even quote from the scriptures.

You know, you can quote from the scriptures for anything, as you know, and we mustn't get caught in that kind of trap. We can prove anything from the scriptures but only a Qabalist knows what they really meant and when you consider the mistranslations be wary of that particular bit of poor reasoning which is involved so the even tempered human being is not necessarily one who is always speaking with a nice calm serene countenance why do we bring this out look at that emperor he's a man of war this is aries mars is the ruler of aries this is a fiery thing reasoning is no namby-pamby business it's vital it's fiery it's alive it's alive because because it stems from Tarot Key number one, the magician, which is attention and is assigned to the pair of opposites of life and death. So proper reasoning has to do with a vital quality, and therefore an even disposition has nothing to do with one of these anemic representations of so-called spirituality where who say I have given up are all attachments to the world.

I cannot move by such lowly and unevolved elements. My consciousness is always this peace this and just quickly you have you seen this kind have you ever gone to listen to somebody and who is supposed to have attained this peace bliss and fallen asleep or I've gotten disgusted.

Sometimes I get worried when I notice some of you taking a nap.

But then I immediately say to myself, well, no.

Although other people's reasoning may be fallacious, I secretly know that mine is good enough so that I am probably only teaching them subconsciously.

Well, the fact is that karma and work, being involved here with activity, because this is activity, ox goes, this has to do, this is the activity or the agency through which the real evolution takes place, which we see here as the corporeal intelligence. Notice the path on this tarot, please. You see how what looks like a crab is coming up out of the water, and there's this path, there's this dog, and then the wolf and the path keeps going up. And you notice the cultivated look of the scenery there on the hills as it goes up between the two towers which remember a man made and on up to the height well this is showing you what it's showing you the path of return this is showing you what it is showing you evolution this is showing you what it is showing you the growth process and it is saying to you in essence this growth process has to do with the corporeal or, and remember corporeal doesn't mean carnal, or whatever carnal means.

We'll go into that off and on whenever we need to. But the corporeal means what? That which we call the physical element of life, the organized element. Therefore, this stage of spiritual unfoldment is called organization. Organization and I'll tell you reasoning is what? He for the Emperor what is reasoning but being able to organize your that which you have been thinking your attention your memory your Experiences your imagination from the previous Tarot key three remember creative imagination to organize These elements and then these elements become organized into the physical and unless they're organized into the physical you haven't got a thing therefore the anemic ones who are deluded in themselves escaping the responsibilities of the past because you know you do develop a few calluses on the feet and you cut in other words you can't avoid getting hurt and getting some sore muscles you know I'm getting uh occasionally a little poison ivy or something like that as part of part of the adventure you can't avoid it but you shouldn't even want to that's the whole secret of the matter because the equilibrium or adjustment there the karma and the work all this is part of what it's part of the unfoldment of our whole evolution and those who try to tell us are the you know the universe is an illusion it's a delusion and therefore let us go where we have nothing but peace bliss serenity uh they are off on the wrong path yes of course we want peace and bliss and serenity but But we don't get it by poor reasoning, by making believe we have it.

In other words, by withdrawing into a type of schizophrenic state.

And that's what it really amounts to.

When you withdraw from the expression on the physical plane, that's one of the greatest dangers of mysticism, you know, is that so many of the mystics go into a sort of schizophrenic state and don't realize it. They think it's a pure experience of mysticism. And in actuality, in a sense, it's like a backward push of the consciousness pushing itself forward and very often succeeding in experiencing that peace, serenity, and bliss of the embryo in the mother's womb.

Because every embryo has that in its mother's womb. And every one of us are really in the womb of the cosmic mother. But the cosmic mother is trying to grow us so that we have a full body, so that we become perfected, full rulers, and some of us hang on, you know, or try to go backwards because of poor thinking or reasoning reasoning and think that evolution is trying to make sure that we melt ourselves back down into the previous state of peace bliss instead of going on to what you might call the positive experience of the peace bliss which has to be brought down into earth remember in the apocalypse see I like to prove things to the bible too the scriptures like everybody else except that I give some Qabalistic meanings which were the original intent. And so I think it should carry a little more weight. But, you know, the Apocalypse talks about the heavenly Jerusalem coming down to earth.

And, you know, the Emerald Tablet assigned to Hermes Trismegistus tells us that the force, that is the one universal force, be integrated if it be turned into earth this is a very important point if it be turned into earth therefore all true spiritual attainment all true liberation all true cosmic consciousness has to do with bringing the above to the below, not saying I am half the need for this below.

I have fought my fight on this below. I have attained.

Follow me. Follow me. And they're pale, not only are they pale and demeaned, as we pointed out to you, but they don't even remotely know how to love. They are the type who, if somebody is in trouble and really needs someone else to understand, they'll say, just remember it's an illusion or a delusion. Lift your consciousness to God. Whereas what that person in trouble needs is for someone to say, by God, you have that problem. And I sympathize and approve it. You have.

And I sympathize with your problem. Now let's together examine and try to understand what your problem is. And let's see what we can do to overcome it or understand it or outgrow it. And that way that other person has what? That other person has somebody who's with him. That's love, isn't it? That's really love.

And this is a dynamic thing. It's a vital thing. It's not a weak namby-camby thing.

So the agency or law through which the reasoning faculty in true vision works, we may call it an ox goad and yet all the time though we see that an ox goad means something vital but we see a serene individual holding the scales you also need a five minute rest so I think it's quite time alright let's have the fresh air of the five minute intermission all at once while you're putting on the fan you can turn this off my talk this next Sunday morning is still principles are principles even though we can chuckle at our inability to put some of them into perfect practice it isn't so important that we be perfect it's what we're attempting to do the important thing is to work at seeing it accurately and curiously enough the rest works itself out far more readily and easily than we would even begin to dream of. Now let's consider two things in relation to this tableau a little more carefully. One is the law and the agency through which our reasoning faculty works, that which we see, just how it affects the activity, the work, the compulsions, and therefore the karma.

It's usually thought that karma, for instance, or work, have the repercussions that are painful, whereas it has nothing to do with either painful or not painful, as certainly we as tarot and students of Qabalah should know by now. It has to do purely with a readjustment of the universal forces that takes place in terms of our own consciousness and therefore our own environment, which is the result of our consciousness. And a readjustment of the forces is what's always meant by work, the equilibrium, the action and therefore the reaction and this readjustment has nothing at all to do with punishment or with retribution you know we have an unhappy experience and we say to ourselves now what did I do that's wrong some men will say why am I do I keep having such failures say in this business or that business actually it's because he isn't very smart in other words his reasoning faculties are such that he picks either the wrong business at the wrong time and he needs these uh so-called failures in order to learn how to reason accurately how to discriminate how to have better vision so it isn't a terrible thing except in terms of what we value of course it becomes terrible then but on the whole it's as simple as that. Somebody wonders why have I got such terrible luck in love for instance. I remember one person saying to me I've had pretty bad luck that's why I am still single and I said well oh you have what is your bad luck consisted of and this person said well the I guess the ones I cared for may have been karmic relationships that were brought in order to wash out karma or something I probably have come in with a karma to release myself from certain ties and where I wanted the tie or really cared for the people involved that they were they broke it themselves well after a little study of this person which took me about two to three and a half minutes I discovered that this person didn't have bad luck at all. This person very carefully saw to it that no individual of the opposite sex would even dream of thinking of this person as someone to rely on permanently in any way. Freedom was the cry and of course this person had freedom. Freedom from the responsibilities of relationship, freedom from the joys of relationships, freedom from belonging to somebody, freedom from the beauty of the problems involved in having someone share your karma and your hope and your sorrows. And this person thought that it was just plain bad luck. Never did I meet anyone who more carefully thought to it that the only place his affections were placed was where the person would very definitely not be masochistically inclined and therefore would not put up with the kind of treatment in other words the ox goes t11 this person's actions forced the kind of result on the physical plane corporeal intelligence which brought about disillusionment in women and I've known women who do the same with men. It goes in both directions. So as I said, we reason incorrectly when we think of karma in just one manner. We should realize this, that our karma on the whole, our actions, which really are our compulsions, come from the accuracy with which we can reason. Therefore, the accuracy with which we see, the kind of accurate vision we have in relation to ourselves, our relationships, and our environment. And when we get into trouble, there's one thing we should be able to say to ourselves, we as occult aspirants. And as we say it, incidentally, you will be astonished at how quickly we'll be able to grow out of it. What?

Well, the T11 has also to do with an emotional nature. Well, 99.9% of us are emotional.

Well, I hope 100% of us are. Wouldn't we be monsters if we didn't have the beautiful, rich thing of emotionalism?

It's not it's not a balanced emotional response yes that's well that's what I think I hope I'm talking about um though sometimes it's difficult to get uh some of these abstract ideas across us when we are trying to deal with the principle behind what our compulsions are the point is that our emotional natures as we tried to show in our last series you know it has to do with our grasp of conditions our emotional natures have to do with the amount of discrimination we'll be taking that up with key six and the lovers and then we'll go into the male-female relationship a little more carefully and try to show you a few things that I don't think you've ever seen before that and why that involves so much the actual the actual discriminatory faculty that deals with all other parts of our lives the ability to have discrimination but the emotional nature certainly is involved with this equilibrium here but you see it's the degree with which we reason correctly that conditions this emotional nature to its results of course this isn't the series in which we're showing how that emotional nature came about we showed that and for instance that first stage the Tarot key number eight for instance with the woman and the lion we should that is what you call the our training of the animal nature what we call the animal nature and yet that is a part of the emotions that still have not come under the dominance of the controlling factor in ourselves that is really of the king here basically so it was in terms of the magician then because this king this emperor is another aspect of the magician. It's the principle that results from the other elements that have been involved. And you see the point is this. We've got to realize that the only way a baby learns what hot fire means is by at least once poking that finger in the fire. The only way that any of us learn anything is by going in for that experience at least once. The trouble is most of us want to go in for it for a dozen incarnations, you know, before we get it through our head. That this experience ties up with this kind of conditioning in the emotional nature. Now actually the conditioning in the emotional nature as shown here, which is partially the idea of the equilibrium this is actually the activity aspect of that emotional nature but here in the effect we've been talking to you about corporeal intelligence and we pointed out actually these are little consciousnesses and that they are little like animal consciousnesses and our whole emotional nature really is tied up with the kind of cells we have in our physical bodies because we made those cells way back at the beginning starting off with key number one you know on all those levels and the kind of cells we have in our physical body has to do in its entirety not just partially but completely with what has happened in our consciousness regarding our relationship this is the thing we must always bear in mind with our relationship because it's in our relationships that everything is revealed to us as in as we try to show you in the previous series our relationships are a giveaway to us and to all others as we showed you just a few moments ago with what how this particular man and I know and it's true in any case with male or female was very carefully being to it he was ruling his life and in his rulership he was making his disappointment because he did not want the responsibilities he was he was not emotionally mature enough for those responsibilities now how do we get out of the emotional conditioning which you mentioned there dear that will be taking up with the rest of the series more than we've done up to this point because we're watching the whole thing unfolding circle by circle spirally and we're seeing it isn't until we see what is happening and how it's happening that we start gaining more of the controls here we have before the emperor with the rulership which starts balancing and readjusting our lives which means the balance and readjustment really of our physical body now here is what really occurs in our physical body basically because this is what we want you to understand before the tonight's class is over so that we can at least start watching for some of the symptoms uh that take place and see how we do things and in that and then when we go on to our next series we're going to be in a better position to put more force and power into the transmutation and get ourselves into the highest stages of the spiritual unfoldment far more rapidly what we're trying to do remember is to learn to whirl ourselves rapidly through each stage instead of keeping ourselves stuck in these grooves Now then, the corporeal intelligence having to do with body consciousness. Here is what you want to realize. First of all, in terms of suggestion, every time you reason about anything, it's a suggestion to subconsciousness. And that goes where? Back of the brain. Where else? Every time you see something, that goes to subconsciousness. Where does that go? That's the back of the brain.

Our forebrain you know is our conscious reasoning and analyzing mind that's before the forebrain those are the lobes in our heart but and but then are the cerebellum and the medulla obligata these are the back part of the brain basically a little bit to the side although the medulla is completely in the back so that all our subconscious processes have to do with what we said organization the back of the head from p18 there the the real evolving part of our consciousness then has to do with the cells as they absorb the attitudes that have been registered through suggestion to subconsciousness which has its physical base in the medulla oblongata and it's done this way you start you look at life as ugly and the suggestion immediately goes in every cell takes it up your whole being no one has ever thought of as being beautiful incidentally who sees life as ugly once they pass a certain age because it starts liking itself deeply into every cell and it actually changes the structure it changes the expression it does all those things the homeliest people start becoming beautiful who see life as beautiful and notice what we're saying see and we're talking about sight with the emperor all the time the principle jumps through the activity the balancing the readjustment taking place in key 11 into the expression which which in this series is key 18.

Now how do we get to have cosmic consciousness liberation illumination spiritual awareness happiness beauty there's only one way and if you are fooled into following those quick ways so so you'll be fooled for a little while you'll come back sooner or later and some incarnations are there and you'll have to do it the only way there is to do it and that's going through the definite steps of changing your body consciousness cells there is no other way some think ah I'll just do good or I'll think good and then I'll go to you know to the seventh sphere on on where arcturus may be and I won't have to go through this anymore every human soul who has evolved to human self-consciousness has to get the changes made through the consciousness of the body cells because until that's done you haven't got an instrument in and through which to have it now there are certain parts of the body cells that have a more potent effect on our thinking faculties, other parts on our feeling faculties, as we know.

Nevertheless, all of them are controlled by the part of our consciousness which has its ingress into incarnation through this medulla obligata. And that's the subconscious part. That's why it's called the moon, by the way, this tarot key. It's showing you that it's tied up with the processes of the moon, the pituitary body, you know in the brain and the relationship is very profound now everybody who's ever had even one experience say of cosmic consciousness that they might have been for a flash moment has had it because some change took place in enough of the cells of the body so that there was able to be a tune-in it's just like every light that's ever been lit had to be brought over a wire from through a transmission station and every chain and it isn't that we are what you might call are tied to being physical beings no it's only this that it's only in and through the rulership of the physical that we attain to the super physical to the freedom from the physical by becoming its ruler that's the point what is the physical universe as a whole actually what is it it's an electromagnetic condensation of the cosmic mind stuff concentrated by ourselves in and through the divine life which we are a part of and it's only in and through the development of that rulership over that little area of cosmic consciousness which we can call our body our physical body it's in becoming the ruler of that which is in this that we attain finally to the rest of the higher consciousness and that is why it is so dangerous to follow the paths that tell you that you can get away from the body away from the physical world away from the illusion and the delusion and the pain to those states otherwise because if you attempt it all you do is slow your evolution and we're trying to do what we're trying to accelerate it at this time and at this time we're trying to accelerate it more than we ever did and it can be accelerated as we know the very fact that we can have instantaneous uh cures of certain physical conditions shows that consciousness can do something to accelerate a change on the physical plane and we have enormous records of that as we know instantaneous disappearances of tumors and cancers and instantaneous elongations of legs that was short from birth and things like that the fact that it can happen once in a while shows that the
