The next book is Awaken Your Inner Sensorium Through Qabalah.

Now then, what do we mean by Inner Sensorium in the Qabalistic Way of Return? Let's try to analyze it. We know that in the untold numbers of thousands of metaphysical and occult books, we get a pretty confused idea of just what the inner senses or psychic senses or super sensory three senses involve and because of this because we have read so many books which we should incidentally builders of the adytum which means builders of the holy temple within the sanctum sanctarium approves of having acquired the knowledge all the knowledge man has to give this way we learn better how to separate the wheat from the chaff and advance more rapidly as long as we don't keep spreading ourselves around continuously like what Dr. Case used to call the metaphysical tramps. But even these need to tramp. This is their phase of growth at the moment. However, there is much confusion regarding the ideas of what is meant by the inner sensorium or the supersensory faculties.

Lots of people think that the psychic experiences are the supersensory faculties. And this, of course, is not really true, though it involves a certain portion of that awareness. And it's very difficult, indeed, for those who are traveling the path of return to learn how to differentiate so many things, but this is part of the training. Remember, consciousness is the creator of all things.

Our divine consciousness is the divine creator of the universe. What we call personal consciousness is really you might say a cloak or a dress in which the higher self which is at one with the divine consciousness experiments with its own newly found individualization within God or within the one whereas before it was more when I say before I'm talking about something that would have staggering numbers like untold trillions of squadrillion of years ago when God decided well I'm going to get this center of myself developed into individual activity and awareness and that's us at this point the individuality that has been developed through the use of our image making faculties or consciousness this is what makes us sons and daughters of God or the image of the divine although as children or as infants of course our activities are still pretty clumsy just like any child would be and what we're doing is learning how to use our faculties so that they will be less clumsy we're learning how to develop our sense of balance how to understand what we see we recall the sense of wonder in a child we look at babies who look with great big wide open wondrous eyes onto the world and instantly our hearts go out to babies except those of us who don't like children and then we still have to substitute something so we'll substitute some child of god whether it be an adorable creature like a little cat kitten puppy dog or other living essence even to having to love and touch and breathe a flower or a plant.

These are all still children of God in different phases of evolution, of course. So we all have this type of consciousness that reaches out in order to touch other kinds of consciousness, because if we didn't, we wouldn't really be. Consciousness is an ever-outpouring thing, or this is what it is supposed to be, And this is why we have so many problems in the types who are too withdrawn.

In other words, those who have a tendency to try to withdraw from the world, they're really withdrawing from contact or touch with those parts of God which are on levels of self-evolution that we may call a plant or a breed or a creature or a baby or an adult.

But an adult is still a baby in the eyes of those who see a little farther. So the consciousness of the divine is really being expressed in and through us in accordance with the degree of development that has come about in the individual personalities.

And the personalities are not something that are developed or evolved and that's it. your personality a year ago was different than what it is today and think of what it was like 20 years ago would you recognize yourself in terms of traits attitudes hopes dreams you haven't changed them in 20 years you haven't been flowing as rapidly as you would had you been working with bota work which would have helped you to change them and always incidentally into something more beautiful more satisfying as most of you who have come regularly know by this time. So the personality is really the cloak, the continuously changing cloak, of the actor, which is the higher self. And the personality, therefore, is also the way that the real self expresses its responses to vibrations or the livingness of life. And its ability to take in the data has to do with the senses which are part of the personality so that for example when you see with your eyes you remember what was read from the Bible having eyes they see not having ears they hear not and indeed it should have also said having a sense of touch they touch not because this in essence is what it finally amounts to for perception but when the word perception was used that really was including that as well as other elements of awareness through the senses. Now then these senses of ours, the eyes through which we see, the tongue through which we taste, the ears through which we hear, the fingers and indeed all parts of our skin through which we touch and feel, the vibrational sense which consciousness then interprets according to its level of evolution incidentally these are the ways that your higher self helps to take in what we may call data or data in other words information and this information is sifted through and then your consciousness interprets this information for example there was a time when we looked upon the heavens most of us and we saw that the Sun rotates around the earth this is what our senses has told us and so we set up ideas and thoughts that involve the idea that the sun revolves around the earth with the earth being the center then a time came where the extension of the senses through the intelligence of human consciousness was such with its ability to tune in to other interpretations other realizations and awareness was such that it was discovered first it was was really intuitive as an intuition, incidentally.

Then tested and tried, so it was discovered that this intuition was true, that the sun did not rotate around the earth at all, that indeed this earth or planet rotated around the sun, as did the other planets, which turned people's minds inside out and upside down, because it was quite the shock to the fundamentalist religious thinking of that day, and indeed we had some pretty strange occurrences as you remember the spiritual and holy ones with tears streaming down their eyes putting sinners on the rack to make them discover that they are being heretics and that truly it's the planet that is the center and the Sun whirls around the planet because it was unspiritual to think otherwise so we can see that consciousness has certainly evolve but we can also see i hope that when we take in what our senses alone give us and misinterpret what we get from our senses we're going to have some pretty extraordinarily warped pictures and consciousness as to what the world is like what life is all about what our environment is all about what we are like and therefore we're going to have some pretty warped ways of meeting our problems as I think you can surely see therefore learning how to have eyes to see and ears to hear is not something that we need to take off onto cloud seven though cloud seven exists but you see one of the terrible problems that has definitely been existent in occultism throughout the years is this poignant and i consider it a poignant need for humanity or people who develop a little idealism to want to escape from the horrors that they see about them and feel about them through the senses man's inhumanity to man i mean how can we question it legal murder which we call wars and electrocutions and so on how can we doubt the legal murder. All of the thinkingless, feelingless, lack of sensory sensitivity, with lack of the imagination of consciousness to put ourselves in the place of all these other sufferers. This has brought about, as we said, a very poignant drive for the need or desire to escape and so we have had built up in occultism many levels of thought and teaching which are i am sorry to tell you utterly erroneous that is there are some who say retire to the mountaintop get away from all these hellions you'll find god only in the solitudes of a mountaintop and so some become the hermit and stay only on a mountaintop searching for God and feeling this is the only way to escape.

There are others who say, well, retire from the world and just come and live only with your own in a monastery.

Living, thinking, breathing God amongst our own because the world has nothing for you. You know, forget it. Walk away from it.

It is full of ugliness. and pain and this way you shall find God and release from your suffering and too many people accept this idea well it's all right if you have the yearning you should do it and you should because in time you have to find out that no matter where you go you take yourself with you you can run away from everything but you can never run away from your own emotional nature your own mental nature your own personality at its evolutionary level your own interpretation of life your own response to life this you cannot run away from and when you try all that happens is that you become sterile and you stop having the impact of this data to your eyes to your ears to your heart to force you to keep looking examining bringing in like bringing in ever more and more air into the balloon to expand your perceptions so that finally they will be better able from the larger point of view to interpret and discriminate well you see in the whole western mystery school training which has been kept so quiet and remember we didn't just start up because some body had a psychic pipe dream or had some mediumistic message saying you are a channel for God and you are out you are being brought here on this last mission we are a direct line of something that has been existent for at least six thousand years right here on the physical plane as well as a spiritual will correlate in linkage and we are that which is which aspirants are brought to when they're ready to realize that a completely new area of evolution is necessary for them when they are able to center themselves on the realization that they want souls strong enough to withstand the impact of that which is about them in order to use the strength of the soul in its impact to become something more than it is it is for those who there are therefore willing to say i do not wish to escape from life whatever it has for me joy or sorrow because it has both always what i want is to be able to see life as it really is not through the delusion of the false interpretation of the limited senses i want to perceive it in its real element and i want to be able to perceive it in such a way that i know what it is why it is and be able to bring that knowing of what it is and why it is into this life for the sake not only of my own growth but for the sake of my fellow man for the sake not only of my fellow man who is one with me but for the sake of all those little creatures that are born and live and die who are also our brothers and sisters and for the sake not only of those but for the sake of the plants that push their way up from the ground under conditions that are fantastic they will crack stones to reach towards the Sun with their own inner sensorium and not only for that but for the sake of every atom that exists in the universe since my whole beingness my individuality is an electromagnetic field of such atoms that gives me the power and the ability to be and do and and act as an emissary for the Most High, to the degree I have developed the ability to do this.

And having the ability to do this does not mean going off to a mountaintop, my darling, nor withdrawing to a monastery, though sometimes these things are very lovely, for a week or two or three, in order to saturate oneself with a little meditation. Some people need it, some don't. But this is not the same as withdrawing from a world that is full of pain. It is not the same at all. Therefore, developing your inner sensorium through Qabalah has to do with retraining your whole sense of identification, which the lessons you receive through the mail do by giving you a week by week method that you work with. So that little by little, instead of you thinking of yourself as your I being body, which in Qabalah is called goof and that's why I suppose materialists surely are goofy in fact that's where the word comes from you know or instead of identifying your selfhood with your emotions love hate anger jealousy hope or instead of identifying your selfhood with your intellectual processes that is analyzing analyzing, studying, discriminating.

You start to identify your selfhood with that which is aware of all these things. In other words, with that which is the owner, the real owner of your intellectual processes, of your feeling processes, of your physical processes, and therefore of your total environment, changing your sense of identification.

To the degree you manage to do this, of course, to that degree do you start seeing what you didn't see before and hearing what you didn't hear before. Only what you see and hear is not what most people think. It is not the idea of being psychic. It's true. Most people in occultism have psychic vehicles. And this is really, as I've often told you, more of a problem than a help. Because a psychic vehicle merely means that we have a thinner line or veil between ourselves and the subconscious mind which dreams which images which goes into the play acting that children go into which dramatizes which holds the patterns of all of the evolution of humanity with its barbaric elements of which we're apart which holds the patterns of all the guilt of which we We are a part, and which holds the patterns also, though, of that which is about to come because of what we've been and done or thought or seen.

In other words, it's the foundation for the projection into the physical. Therefore, being psychic or having psychic experiences has nothing to do, as we've often told you, with being spiritual or really developing your inner sensorium. though those who are psychic will sometimes be able to do it more readily if they are able to differentiate between psychic and truly intuitive true perception from the higher levels and this of course is what we work on here all the time in all the various different ways that we do this but the psychic awareness although it is different does help us to start to understand a part of our being when we have that to realize that just as we dream when we are asleep we can in a way dream when we are awake and just like in dreams we have a hodgepodge a pandora's box of some pleasant things some nightmares and sometimes a little prophecy thrown in sometimes a true message from a deeper source thrown in the midst of this hodgepodge in the same way psychic experiences do this.

We can sometimes have true messages thrown in, but it's more of sort of dream state elements or collections into a radio station that isn't properly tuned, so we may be getting three, four, five different programs at once.

and of course this is not really conducive towards proper conducting of the life and problems although it's interesting as such now the inner sensorium has to do with really extension of seeing hearing feeling and knowing into the higher levels of being into the higher selfhood remember the psychic level with its psychic awarenesses is something we share with all creatures, all creatures, and that means including the creatures that are below us in their evolutionary stratum. But the supersensory awareness is something that can be known only to man. It's something that you are being prepared for here, when we gather together, doing the work we do to stir your, to stir your awakening, to stir your receptivity to these higher, more rapid, vibrational forces. This inner seeing, inner hearing then, has to do more with learning how to look and see and hear, touch, feel, into an extension because of paying attention to where we are. In other words, concentration with that wonder of the child as Jesus said except you become as a little child and that ability to learn how to transfer the switch of your consciousness to the higher self as doing the seeing as it searches searches searches opens looks into the deeper for example when you are with a friend and the friend is relating a problem to you. If we are using our senses properly, our whole heart and soul will open up to a true perception of this friend's problem and an ability to help this friend more with what we don't say sometimes than what we do say, because of our own understanding being able to wrap that friend with love and therefore awaken them without words, because words usually won't do it. It sets up a bridge. Sometimes it sets up a block and just because something was said, let's say, is against the present prejudice or the present hope that we cannot bear to let go of, we will be blocked to proper advice. Therefore it's really often a waste of time to advise anybody in the usual way to be able to listen and to love and to accept and perceive and wrap the person in front of us with our love. They will go home. Of course this happens all the time.

Those of you who've discussed problems with me have discovered this. Although once or twice I remember in the past some have said, well I don't know, I go to Reverend Davies with a problem, you know, it's just awful. Isn't she supposed to counsel? She wouldn't give me any advice.

And what they didn't know is that I was doing, or they, as some of, most of them found out later, I was doing more for them to awaken them to the real problem and to give them the strength and ability to face it and to overcome it than I could have remotely done by trying to show how smart I am by saying okay now here's what you do now you just do this and this and this and this and this and that and don't forget that along with all the this and then people figure out but you see this is is just hunting for a loss of our own freedom and a true spiritual teacher will never permit you to do it people think they can run to the masters and have their problems solved and what they don't know is that if they have contact with somebody who tells them what to do psychically they're not in contact with a master because no master will really tell you what to do he will be injuring you and cheating you of your growth and no master would do it he loves you too much just like no mother who loves her baby will lift it up every time it wants to go someplace when it's time for to learn how to crawl and walk she'll be injuring the development of that child love doesn't do that nor do the higher spiritual reaches but love wraps you around and gives you the strength and the help to to encourage you to take the step to give you the courage to step into the unknown on, even if you might make a mistake, as long as you know you're going to be growing therefrom, and better to make the mistake then. Now then, this inner sensorium, when we start learning how to look at our friend or our beloved, husband or brother or child, or sister or parent, and just to look at them, not to be looking at them, but to be searching into their eyes for more of a closeness of understanding to be feeling into their heart through the sense of touch with more of a closeness of feeling to be listening to every subtle tone of the sound of the voice in order to see and hear the things they're not telling you about because perhaps they either don't know it themselves or they don't dare for fear you won't love them you know how we feel we must present a certain picture because if people knew what kind of secret thoughts we have uh or drive they might not love us and yet everyone who's attained my darling will love you perhaps even more for these things understanding it so well and there will be that much more tenderness in the love and that's why i think that jesus loved the sinners and And Buddha loved the sinners, and all the avatars have loved the sinners so profoundly and so much more deeply, and why they've been criticized, perhaps, for hanging around saloons and whatnot of their day, and prostitutes in their day.

Because here you have ability for growth. People are getting out there to live, to grow, because you grow only through living. And you develop your inner sensorium only through paying attention to the senses that you have.

Not by withdrawing into a no-man's land because this puts you into some psychic state, some of which are very interesting, but it isn't an extension of conscious supersensory awareness into larger fields of vibration.

The spiritual involves using your eyes to be in contact with everything you see. When you look at a flower, don't just look at the flower.

try to see every subtlety of color in that flower when you look at a leaf don't just look at a leaf try to see every subtlety of shape and the miracle of the differences of shape between leaf and leaf and the variations in the colors on the one plant or the one tree because this way you are you are in a state of meditation that is far more spiritual than somebody who sits contemplating his navel in order to find out how to get the H away from it all.

You are trying to attain a contact with the livingness of God to see into and why this is and to be a part of it. And so when you look, don't just look at what is outer. Look at the expression in the eyes. Look at the expression in the mouth. Look at the carriage. And when you look, think of the miracle of all this form. and these colors and so gradually your eyes will develop the ability to see as God sees so God can see through you completely and not through the work glass of your conditioning and when you listen don't just listen to a sound if you're listening to music listen to all the variations of tone let your ears in attention listen to the overtones and the miracle of the overtones within the tones to the melody to hear a bird sing out listen to the subtleties that are involved in that voice and in the various other voices and don't say that's a squawk you're not listening it isn't a squawk when you listen properly it's a magic call with a variation a group of variations of tone, ushering forth from a living throat that throbs with warmth, with the warmth of God and the sound of God. Every living creature is the word of God made flesh. Never forget this. This is what you must search for then, if you want to develop that. And with your sense of touch, as I've so often told you, of course, taste. What are you ever tasting but the flavor of the most tie, nourishing you, entering into you continuously and continually. And touch, we said, I always like to finish with the touch, because all our other senses are variations of the evolution of touch. If you've been one who's been reserved, it's time to start gently adventuring into the miracle of touch so that when you take the hand of a friend don't just take the hand of a friend without thought put all your consciousness in that hand and the warmth of that hand and the squeeze of that hand the holding the feeling and if you put your cheek against the cheek of another. Put all your consciousness into that touch. Let it assimilate, let it absorb. This is a miracle of God that you are touching in the very specialized way that the Most High has evolved for you at this moment. And when you touch the cheek of a beloved, whether it be a little child or a lover or husband or sister or friend, let your lips try to feel into the touch of the assimilation of the livingness and warmth it can just take a split second and yet it is a miracle it is a contact of an aspect of God with an aspect of God let this sense of touch make you feel itself into an actual almost assimilation with a gratitude Let your mind reach to the divine, saying, God is feeling the warmth of the livingness of this person or creature.

Dog, little dog, little cat, little plant.

In and through, there's a miracle of my touch.

I am miracle, and this is miracle, and this is expressing the unity that is so basic and awakening. awakening an inner awareness of a unity that will spread itself out into infinity one day sometimes gradually sometimes with a sudden flash of ecstasy that is almost unbearable and i hope all of you can have that kind of unbearableness and this is what i in every way have been projecting to you regularly to awaken you to these awarenesses these extensions because then you get extended into such an element that although there's pain on oh there is great pain there is also ecstasy what ecstasy there is when your beloved is sorrowful yes it pierces your heart when you sorrow my heart is pierced when tears pour down your cheeks believe me my darling they're washing my soul and when you are reaching with hope the yearning is pulling at my entire being because I am not separate from any one of you in any way whatsoever in any shape or form and the crucifixion that those of us who have this have to experience is worth it for the ecstasy and the love because in the same way then we are helping you in every manner possible with every method possible that we have and we have the most potent as you know we are helping you to awaken to the same awareness the same realization the same miracle the same beauty when we say hear oh israel the the Lord thy God, the Lord is one.

When we chant the divine name, we are chanting a unity, we are beating it into infinity, because we are one, you and I, and together into God and life and all creatures. And we are awakening to this more and more.

Let us now have our prayer.
