Thank you again. Happy Easter.

Thank you.

Let's see what the title for our Easter talk is. I know what it's about, but what title did we give you?

The Esoteric Meaning of Rebirth.

This is our talk for Easter. And actually, of course, as you realize, those of you who've been here for a while, what we're really going to talk about is the Qabalistic meaning of Easter, the Qabalistic meaning of resurrection, the Qabalistic interpretation, therefore, of this whole season.

Let's begin, then, with a little rapid historical information, which is very important in order to have a true understanding of this season which is incidentally a very potent and beautiful one indeed historically then when we go back to the bible and incidentally did you know that a group of archaeologists recently have unburied an age-old temple that was mentioned in the bible spoken about many a time, which was discussed in terms of oral tradition through the centuries, because according to tradition, whether this is completely true or not, we don't know, the Bible wasn't actually written down, that is the older parts of the Old Testament, until something like 400 to 600 BC. see and yet there are various historical elements involved as well as mystical teachings though people have misunderstood these too alas and even alack but just recently I read in my little science newsletter which I receive each week it gives me the condensed element for the latest findings in science and saves me a great deal of time they have unearthed the the temple, which has been spoken about in the Bible, which, dating it with the latest carbon system, shows that it is approximately 2,000 years before Christ.

Now, that's 2,000 years before Christ, which means approximately close to 4,000 years old at this point.

And, therefore, they have verified the accuracy of the oral teachings handed on from generation to generation. in one of the most startling of manners and realize now that they can rely on historical data which they were not sure about before because it was similar to the unearthing of the elements involved with Troy.

I hate to interrupt my talk, but I would like you to know that these are my prides and joys entering in.

these are the two young men who are mine all mine because that's the sense with my daughter daughter and grandson bring them around more to the front over here please so I can look at them and give a better talk I'm very objective about them you understand I have a scientific temperament all three of them you realize this I hope and of course some people say I should praise God for this but I figure I'm going to take a little of it for myself. God can afford to share it.

Now then, we will return to our Easter talk, which is really a very important and vital one indeed, because I think that a true understanding of what is involved in Easter is the only way that one can have a true understanding of what initiation stands for. And I know that you've all read many books, or at least most of you have, about initiation. And I've heard many versions, and you've listened to many claims, some perhaps correct ones, and some full of delusion. But an understanding of Easter actually involves an understanding of initiation itself and an understanding of the resurrection and of what Christ stands for in us and for us also includes the same thing. So let's consider now that I have shown you how the oral traditions have been shown to be so extraordinarily accurate that they have been known to exist in exactitudes for close to 2,000 years before they were written down.

My youngest grandson is rather excited at finding me here on the platform. Close parenthesis. It's very funny.

This should help to give you a greater realization of what we're going to talk about in relation to the story of Christ, his birth, his teaching, his crucifixion, and his resurrection. And the resurrection is what we're celebrating today. This is really a joyous part of the holiday season, and yet actually every season should be joyous if we knew how to interpret it. Anyway, let's examine then the historical findings in relation to this Easter season, in relation to the ideas of the Son of God, in relation to the ideas of resurrection. And then, perhaps, Easter will take on even richer meanings for us, and it will mean even more than buying a new dress or hat or shoes and just going to church. But we will see it as a way of life, not just from day to day, but even moment by moment and even second by second into the hours and days and weeks and eternities that are truly ours.

Now then, historically, another thing has been found, and I don't know how many of you have read some of the translations from the Dead Sea Scrolls. These are manuscripts that were buried by the Essene Monastery, in case some of you are not familiar with this. and the Essene monastery was the esoteric group who taught the hidden wisdom of Israel in a particular community actually they were the mystical community which stood behind the exoteric teachings of Israel this we must always realize that the hidden or esoteric teaching for any group. There's always more. Just like Jesus said to the masses, I must teach one thing, but to you it is given to know. This is what he said to his 12 disciples, because they were being given an esoteric teaching. They were being given the secret wisdom of Israel. And always ways these teachings, this tradition, remember, was oral. Nothing in relation to Qabalah on the whole was ever put into writing until something like the 12th or 13th century AD. Remember, AD, that means after Christ. Nevertheless, when we realize that we have been able to verify historical data about the exact location of a temple and its description and its evolution 2,000 years before it was written down or close to that we should also then realize that the rest of the teachings of the tradition deserve our very close attention and so here is what was also discovered in one of the Dead school writings buried by the Essene community found as you remember not very long ago very few years ago the entire story of the birth life and death of the Christ was related and dated as having taken place between four and six hundred years before Christ this you can look up this is known now what does this mean does this mean that i'm trying to say to you there was no jesus no indeed this does not mean that at all what i'm trying to tell you is that there is a tradition of evolution and initiation that is as age old as the consciousness of man that it is a part of the ritualistic procedure of every true esoteric training system of the mysteries. That it was taking place then, it took place before, I cannot tell you for how long it is taking place now here in and through Builders of the Adytum. It is my very heavy responsibility to be the present-day representative on this planet for this initiatory system in its various grades.

and it's a heavy burden indeed at times though it brings its reward in what we see happen to aspirants who reached a point where they're ready to take up the cross of Christ and follow him and this of course is what we really do in the true mystery teachings whether we want to call it by any other name some people have become antagonistic antagonistic towards the word Christian or Christianity, for good reason, because history has done some horrible things with some beautiful teaching.

And some people, in fact, unfortunately, most of the so-called Christian world has become antagonistic to the very group who kept alive for them the tradition and training and who gave to the world the first completely initiated illumined consciously aware human being of his sonship with God namely Yahushua whom you know as Jesus so that we have cause to look into this and to try to understand it so that we can wash out of our hearts the hatreds and the the misconceptions and the propagandas that have been given us because remember to you it is given to know and to the general world it is not because they haven't got the capacity to understand so to you it is given to know what jesus the christ and the resurrection really stands for and not because I had some cloud seven kind of pipe dream because fortunately I have the teachings the tradition the unbroken tradition as old as close to six thousand years to lean on which of course I agree does not make it correct because age doesn't mean nothing is right nevertheless the fact that this This initiatory system has continued and continues.

And the fact that you see here in this temple human beings, who I think you will agree are quite superior to the general run of human beings in most places, though certainly not everywhere, as witnessed our party last Thursday night.

I wish that most of you had been there at this party. I wish you had seen us celebrating together the spirit of the adventure of life, the love and chuckle and laughter of the togetherness of being.

And then you would have realized that to learn how to live as a unity together and to celebrate in a temple the joyousness of life and the sonship of God is something that we should work for more and more profoundly and try to realize in ever greater measure that the locked, the bound ideas and thoughts, these may be necessary for the few, I mean for the many, but they're not necessary for those who are ready to go beyond. Therefore consider that in as much as this initiatory system did exist what does this mean it means actually and i'm going to tell you the truth it means that down through the ages in the mystery school there have been the grades as they exist the same today these various grades are each an initiation in themselves that take you to a point where every human being becomes conscious of the fact that he and or she is a crucified son of god and not until we come to be be aware of this not until we see that we are and have always been children of the most high that as children of the most high there is nothing that could happen to any human being on earth that doesn't also happen to us not until we come to the point where we can cry out in our agonies with jesus as he did in that moment of utter despair there, Eloi, Eloi, lama zachdoni, which is exactly what he said, the words he used. And they mean, God, God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because there he was in the grip of what? Of a crucifixion, of torture, of persecution.

And for a moment it was so profound that he even felt God had deserted him. In occultism we call it the dark night of the soul.

Not that we don't have many dark nights of the soul, because we do. But in this particular instance, the dark night of the soul was the last before the complete dawn, or shall we say rebirth, that was being prepared for. This is not the history of one man who lived 2,000 years ago, although it is the history of a brother, and you hear I say brother, of yours, whose name was Yehoshua.

Yehoshua of Nazareth, who came to be known as the Christ, and the Christ, remember, is the Greek rendition of the word, the Hebrew word Mashiach. And the Hebrew word Mashiach means the Messiah. And always in the mysteries it was taught that the Savior is that part of our higher self which becomes awake and takes over.

And that when we evolve to that point, when we become the conscious sons and daughters of the Most High, that is the father which we chant as Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh then the Holy Spirit enters in and the Holy Spirit is involved in the Tarot Key number 20 you remember that Tarot Key it has three figures coming up out of a coffin it's the resurrection with Gabriel blowing his horn and when you put this Hebrew letter called Yod and it's Aramaic remember and it's held the mysteries into the divine name of the Father which is Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh what you've got is the name Yaheshua or Jesus which means that the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit incidentally involves the Divine Mother that That is the eternal divine soul of the cosmic female. So when that eternal cosmic spirit of the divine soul enters in to the activity of the father, we have the conscious birth then. That's the rebirth.

It's the death in order to be reborn again of ourselves as being the conscious sons and daughters of God. And this is your history. The initiation that takes place is something, it is my hope and prayer, that every one of you will prepare yourselves for, to be privileged to receive. There are a few here who have already had it, and very few indeed, because these are the same initiations and the same watchfulnesses of learning that have been taking place all these years, and we're very careful indeed, because only those who are truly prepared and have earned it can go. Nevertheless, the story then of Jesus is the story of you. The story of his crucifixion is the story of you. When you were sent forth by your father to develop individuality, to develop conscious power so that you would someday be able to say, I have power over all things. I can still the waters.

I can quiet the wind. When you were sent forth by your father, you at that moment became the crucified Christ. And at this moment, this is what you are, the crucified Christ. Because there is only one Christ, which, remember, is from the Greek Christus to the Hebrew Mashiach, Savior, and Son, S-O-N. and you are the children of that Most High. On your journey, in your crucifixion, and you are preparing yourselves right now as we sit here together and worship together, you are preparing yourselves right now to attain to the full value of what the crucifixion involves. And what does it involve?

incarnation after incarnation my darling you have wept and you have suffered you have not wept and suffered for just what occultism likes to call your karma that you have wept and suffered for too and laughed and rejoiced with incidentally because after all we haven't always been you know what i mean there are times when we're pretty nice aren't we and sometimes more often than not but it involves even more than that because every center of God which you are because you are a center of God every center of God not only grows into a self-conscious power and realization of the sonship being able to say I am the son and daughter of God as well as I am the son and and daughter of man, as said Jesus. But in the very realization, he realizes that all other people and creatures are parts of himself, because the real self is the most high within us.

And for that reason, we realize that there is no pain anywhere that is not our pain. There is no sorrow anywhere that is not our sorrow. And as we become more aware of the subtleties of emotion, what we start to realize is that this has always been so and that the redemption of man you have heard so often jesus died to save sinners haven't you and you know how people with small minds and literalness took it literally and went out and killed other human beings and tortured other human beings and taught other human beings hate unless they would accept their literal view do you think this is what jesus intended or that the initiation he went through was intended for never jesus did die to save what we might call sinners immature but so have you how many times do you think you've died and alas may die again unless you get busy see I'm always trying to get you really working on that path as you'll notice grist for the mill nevertheless we make it in an ever more easily accessible manner the mountaintop as we know what we're doing and as we know where we're going and the point is all of humanity is the christ and this is what has been taught in qabalah this is what was unveiled in the findings at least of partial findings from the dead sea scroll this i can say to you as the representative for this training of the western mysteries and its usages all of humanity is the christ always was and always will be and so it is true except ye accept the christ you cannot live be redeemed or have your resurrection or overcome your immaturity because all it means is not until you accept your own powers of redemption as your own center in God as a channel and pathway for God not until you can say in your heart and soul I am the way knowing when you say I you're talking about the Tiphareth part of a tree of life the son of God the Christ center not until then can you have the rest of the glory that goes with it but when you do think what happens then you become aware that you are the eternal that you cannot die you can say destroy this temple and I will raise it in three days or one day or a thousand days as I please because you have raised your temple I'd hate to tell you how many times for you to have been here you're approaching then the end of the weary journey and this is something to rejoice over what about yeshua of nazareth he was according to our tradition the first individualized soul on this planet to attain the complete power of the complete knowledge of who and what he was with the ability to take on and share with others and for others this knowledge with the strength to withstand the crucifixions the temptations and stay firm in his love for his fellow man to be able to say father forgive them for they know not what they do he was the first to attain the full powers and therefore for this certainly we more than honor him but if you're going to make him something different than ourselves and if you're going to exempt him from being human is there really any hope for us if he's something other if he's an exception if he was born other than we were born and And if he died other than we die, what hope is there for us?

I would say none.

Therefore, keep this in mind. Love and revere that name, not because of personality, but because of a soul strong enough to get there a little bit ahead of the rest of us.

And willing and able to stand firm to help the rest of us on our way. remember you too redeem the sins of the world with the Christ consciousness not with any certain individual all of us who have entered into an awareness of the elect even to a small degree are redeeming the ignorance and therefore the evil the immaturity and therefore the horrors that exist with immaturity you are more than you know you are Christ incarnate you were born of the Holy Spirit you realize it the inner school the master and my own awareness we're pouring this to you to try to give you an impact of this realization of this experience the pouring with a brilliant some of you who are clairsentient maybe feelings, it's substance. To try to get you to reach, because we help each other, because there's nothing except each other. You, remember, are the child, the son, the daughter of God.

You are redeeming every single error that ever was by the power of your outpouring.

You are the one who has died and died again and again and again in self-sacrifice in order to become a greater larger self in your own awareness You along with anyone else whether it's the highest Messiah You are it too in each and every one of your individualized centers Therefore you are the resurrection Also, because not only have you rather been resurrected over and over again take a new body to come into this tremendous crucifixion of the flesh to develop greater awareness and depth and perception but you have had kindness and you have had goodness let's stop thinking so much about all the other things we've been let's remember we are beautiful and we are every one of you has involved yourselves in sacrifices for others every one of you has involved himself in compassion towards others. Every one of you has given up something for others. Think how far you've come. You are no brute. You are already blossoming into your Christ's awareness, and you have already in many ways fulfilled the resurrection. You have redeemed over and over again the substance of God from animal nature into the spiritual livingness.

And you will finally come to the point where you will die to every bit of nonsense and be resurrected into the full awareness because this is your inevitable destiny. feel your eternal livingness now now open reach picture yourself as going up and out up into eternity there's no end down into eternity there's no end right hand no end left in all directions bursting out you are that center now opening you as you stretch your consciousness so that today or while you sleep or tomorrow or tomorrow you're going to receive a tremendous influx of the magic and miracle and mystery of what you are and then you will truly be able to rejoice with the overcoming of death because you will know not just by by belief, not just with the intellect, you will know that the resurrection of Christ, whatever it symbolized in a smaller way, in a larger way, symbolized something even more important.

You are the eternal life, the Redeemer, the child of God.

And we will rejoice together for the rest of this morning, and I hope all mornings forevermore.
