In our talk this morning, we're actually undertaking a series for the whole month of November.

Although we will have a slight break during the Thanksgiving week, where we will give you a special talk on the ideas that, to the practical application of what we call in this country, our Thanksgiving Day. And which will be a very vital and important talk indeed. But except for that one, which is tremendously vital and has to do with all seasons, all times, all climes, we are going to try to give you an understanding of some of the most important aspects of Qabalah that relate to the Bible as mistranslated, misunderstood, understood and therefore not properly expressed in the two thousand years that have elapsed since the birth of one who understood and was trained in this qabalistic tradition.

Now then, the Genesis 1 has to do with one phase of qabalistic teaching. Teaching. It is remarkable that Genesis 1 and 2 have survived when we consider that so many human beings were involved in ignorance, complete ignorance, in a decision as to what particular texts remain in a group of texts which would be called the Word of God and what texts would be thrown out it is truly remarkable that some of the texts remained it would seem that despite the ignorance there was so much concentration from levels of consciousness on a higher plane that some of them were able to remain uh even though the mistranslations would wash away the minds into the dogmatic horrors that do develop when we have an ignorant consciousness that is an immature consciousness despite this it is remarkable because although just a short few years ago it's extraordinary how short a time ago it was about 25 years ago every thinking intellectual human being was laughing at the Bible especially at Genesis 1 2 & 3 because of the modern scientific discoveries showing that all of Genesis 1 2 & 3 were just nothing but nonsense, superstition, ignorance, and so forth, and that these so-called holy books were responsible for the horrors that were perpetrated in the name of religion for many thousands of years after that. However, interestingly enough, in the last ten years, The whole perception of creation has turned.

It has made a complete turnabout into the opposite direction. And unfortunately, we still have teachers in our high schools and universities who were trained in the ideas that were so strongly held twenty-five years ago, so that here in the temple inevitably we would have at least 50 percent if not more very likely more who have been conditioned by the older thinking feeling which found its way into all the various writings and therefore which would have developed a conflict in the mind and in the heart those who have a better mind than others would have been thrown into the various conflicts and our youngsters today unfortunately a good percentage of them are being taught in the high schools and colleges by those who were conditioned in the era of materialistic scientific thinking whereas today we really have a very different situation you know but it takes quite a few years before someone attains the various degrees which make them available for teaching status. And, of course, when they remain in this area, they continue to teach that which they were conditioned to think and feel. So that a short 25 years ago, practically every human being who went through the educational system, and really not practically every human being, it's just that some were fortunate enough to have one or two teachers who didn't fall for the nonsense but this was unusual or they had minds which would not accept some of the nonsense nevertheless a very short 25 years ago it was uh considered utterly um superstitious to believe in anything that the bible had to say and one of the primary The primary example given was in relation to Genesis 1, 2, and 3, incidentally.

This is why we are taking this up for November. If you have people who have this complaint about the Bible, bring them in for the next group of lectures that deal with the Bible, and they will understand a little better. Now then, what is it that caused this kind of reaction? Remember, we did have a development which lasted unhappily much too long. It lasted between 1,000 and 1,500 years, in which one specific school of thought narrowed the interpretation of what was being said or taught and projected this to the rest of humanity. Humanity, and this particular school of thought was so determined to keep a very strict dogma going that they were absolutely closed to any evolutionary factor, which was incidentally entirely different from the original text from which they took their dogma. And that is why it becomes important to regularly give you reinterpretations of those sections of the Bible which were really given to the world by the Qabalists who were never fixated in dogmas as such.

It becomes very necessary to show us, because our entire mass mind, the mass mind of the Western world, is immersed in the teachings that we relate to the Bible as well as the interpretation.

Being immersed in this, it becomes very vital that we understand what was really taught and how mistranslations in language and misinterpretations because of inability to see brought about incorrect thinking, feeling, narrowing of the mind and heart and horrors which are exactly the opposite which were intended. Now, remember this. The Bible in itself is not something that we have heard claimed for it by those of narrow thinking and feeling areas. Is that is there are some who would make you or try to make you believe that the entire bible is the word of god period if it were then wouldn't it be a terrible thing do you realize how many horrible stories we have of bloodshed cruelty rape all of the ugliness that exists in the lower level of the consciousness of evolving creatures, if this were true, who could really believe in a deity, who could, as being a just and loving deity, if we accepted that idea? Of course we cannot. Nevertheless, the fact does remain that we have, in the Bible, certain certain texts which are so fantastically accurate and inspiring, poetic and beautiful, that we cannot just wash them away or think them away.

We cannot. Even though we have intermingled with the Bible all the begats which give the generations keep historical records. We have records of history that have to do with these tests, trials, and temptations of what human beings go through in various levels. And unfortunately, those who decided to call the Word of God, to call the Bible the Word of God, did not, at the time they decided to do this, know how to differentiate the historical record of striving, hating, loving, power-desiring, inferiority-complex-driven man, they did not know how to differentiate the historical record of what people do on certain levels as against what the actual teachings have been, which have come from higher levels. So they threw in a hush, kush, bagosh.

On their own, you had a bunch of ignorant people voting together as to what is going to be called the word of God and what is not. They threw out some glorious records of true spiritual awarenesses and they kept historical records. For what reason? Only they and God knows.

I'm sure they don't know, perhaps only God knows. Because when people are not very highly evolved, when they are still immature, when they are still adolescent, they don't know what their real motives are. They're usually the drives that come from areas that they have not become aware of as yet.

So that we do have in the bible mixtures and the point is this only one who is trained in qabalah that is in the true western mystery school knows which is what and why and the reason only a qabalist or one trained in qabalah can know this because qabalah actually happens to be a special type of meditational work that has been known to man for so long that we really don't know what the beginning consisted of since those who have kept it inviolate for us.

That is the hebrews and it is at that time not whatever later development has come because of the dogmas just like originally christianity had a glorious qabalist who experienced god as a father as the beginning in other words one a follower of the ideas that god as one one teacher relating all of this teaching to love who was trained in qabalah and that is the esoteric wisdom of israel this one came out into the world and then what happened those who were the pharisees that is those who were fixed in dogmas those who were fixated in the letter of the law turned him down and those who understood the spirit of the law who were open to it said yes here is one of us who has experienced that which we are all striving for who has attained to conscious knowledge of the sonship of himself with god so that you had a division amongst the hebrews themselves the israelites themselves to begin with and then what happened. In this division, you had other human beings taking over who wanted to gain power over the minds and hearts of man. So that certainly, what later developed into dogmatic Christianity, has as much affinity for what Jesus of Nazareth, the rabbi of Israel, taught, as day has an affinity for night their polar opposites in the same way you had in the retention of the bible by those who are ign who were ignorant who didn't know uh what was vital but who had one idea in mind let's gather together the people who we can and frightened enough to keep them in our power.

This is what you had. This is the test everyone usually faces sooner or later. Usually it's later, because the test of power usually comes only to those who've attained to an evolutionary level where they have power.

And incidentally and unhappily, most people fail. Very few people can pass the test of power. They fail. And so they have to keep passing at incarnation or taking incarnation after incarnation until finally they can pass this test of power. And certainly the modern or dogmatic developments of Christianity were through those who were absolutely incapable, because of being so unevolved, of passing the test of power.

Now then the thing that is therefore so remarkable is that the genesis from one through three should have been so free of uh poisoning except for the mistranslations which they have used in their ignorance these people who love to keep and hold power no matter what group they may be except for that. It is rather fantastic that the actual truths have been retained in these texts. And what are these truths? You just heard read to you the story of Genesis 1. But please keep in mind that next Sunday we are going to take up the story of Genesis 2.

And Genesis 2 continues in a story as though Genesis 1 had not taken place. I want you to keep this in mind.

I wonder if you ever thought about that in Genesis 2 we have the story I'm just going to give you that little flash ahead in Genesis 2 we have the story of the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil we have the story of the rib being taken away from Adam, poor Adam you poor darling boys We have the story of refusal to obey God. In other words, the beginning of good and evil as such, or the separation of the sexes in order to bring about marriage as such. But not in Genesis 1. This happened in Genesis 2. This has to be pointed out to you. You are started off with the the realization that there was nothing on planet Earth.

You go home and read your Bible. I'm not going to read it to you at this point. You just had Genesis 1.

And you'll see. And you'll say, what's the matter with them? Were they crazy?

That's what a lot of people said in the last 25 years. This is stupid.

It's illogical. It's irrational. But no, it is not. This is the thing. 25 years ago, those who decided science is giving us all the answers had these ideas. Part of the reason for their turning to atheism was because they saw what they thought was irrationality in this so-called word of God. Well, remember, those of us who are trained in the Western mysteries, we know what the word of God is supposed to have been because we have not been swept away by the interim thinking of groups of ignorant people we have kept the esoteric teaching very few on the planet at any one time incidentally going link by link and through every time in every era we have and therefore we have certain responsibilities that have to do with the real teaching now what are these real teachings involved with when we come to the understanding of the very first uh story that relates to creation and therefore genesis in the bible what we have is one of the most fantastically accurate stories of creation which modern science has only now arrived at that, as a matter of fact, many modern physicists and modern astronomers have changed from atheism and agnosticism to actual, not only believers, but to actual experiences which make them know that there is something extraordinary in the power of consciousness to know ahead ahead of time, or to know on a level in which the physical three-dimensional plane consciousness is not aware of. It has made some of our greatest scientists turn to the very ideas of Qabalah just because 25 years ago science laughed at Genesis 1, 2, and 3, and now they are aghast at the accuracy that is involved. And what is the accuracy that is involved? Here you come to a need a real need that we all have to understand communication everything in the genesis tells you and god said every level of creation is preceded by and god said now this of course is one of the vital points what is it meant by god said remember in saint john you have in the beginning was the word and the word was with god and the word was god and this life was or this light was the life of men now here you have the word light and life all being interrelated this is exactly what modern science has discovered that the vibratory level of expression everything Everything is in a vibratory harmonic.

And that there is no real difference between the vibratory level or rate, which you could really bring down to numbers. That's where our Felix shines, our beloved Father Felix, because he's a mathematician and he knows his numbers, which I don't. I know the spirit of the thing, and he can show you the expression of this extraordinary scientific knowledge. Knowledge. The point is that only modern science has discovered that the vibratory rate of all things is what gives you its level of manifestation. So that now, with certain instruments, we know that when we think, there's a certain vibratory rate that they can register on special instruments. When we feel, it rises up and shows on a vibratory instrument. They now They now have become aware of the fact that there are different vibratory rates that relate to different parts of the body.

They now know that the very beginnings of manifestation of the universe, that doesn't mean beginning of creation. Keep this in mind. Creation and manifestation are not the same.

This is where people get all bogged up. That's why I will point this out and show it to you in our next Sunday morning talk next week. How creation and manifestation are not the same, because Genesis 1 is creation, Genesis 2 is manifestation. Now, what is the difference between creation and manifestation?

Remember, all of this history or the story of creation, what first of all, what is noted? The Qabalists, and this is one of the Qabalistic texts which was kept, it gives an exact, accurate level of the way life finally manifests as well as earth and stars on a physical awareness level as relates to our senses that's it was laughed about before because it was thought that how can you have light unless first the sun is created but now our physicists and astronomers astronomers tell us light was created before the sun the sun is a result of the little bits of light that have to do with our atoms that come together and start glowing and the sun is a later response not an earlier one every single aspect as the the development step by step certainly relates relates completely now to what modern science has taught. And that's why those who are born in this generation are going to be far more spiritually oriented than those who are born in the generation where we refuse to claim past 21 at the moment, or 22 at the most.

At any rate, there is a tremendous difference now because of the Aquarian age being upon us, of course. But then, bear this in mind. In Genesis 1 you start from without form and void which has to do with what the Qabalists call the limitless light before there ruled the kings of Israel there were the kings of Edom where destruction, it's in the Bible destruction ruled a little bit later and the kings of Israel are what? This has to do with the development of Christ consciousness consciousness, of course, which on the tree of life is a very central point of the tree.

And the whole development of dividing the firmament, that is, the ein safar, which in Qabalah is the limitless light or the Absolute Consciousness, into that which is going to express itself into formation. All of this, incidentally, takes place on the three higher Qabalistic worlds and is not yet manifest all of genesis 1 is laying out the pattern which is already set just like an architect puts a plan on a sheet of paper and says all right now this is the way it's going to be and then those who know how to bring about the actual manifestation of the plan say all right Now, first we dig down and we pull out all the parts of the earth to put in the foundation below the earth. Then we do the next and the next. There are certain steps you have to take. In the same way, all of Genesis 1 is a plan that has been put out for step-by-step creation.

In other words, it's the creation that in Qabalah we call the archetypal world, which is the abstract realization life and therefore centers of myself as children and offspring of myself are to come about the next is the world of bria where where the imagination of deity starts to build well as centers and offspring of myself what would be required for the act of of living and growing into complete awareness of myself. Then comes the world of formation where definite plans, detailed plans, are put down in a pattern. And all of Genesis 1 takes place in those worlds. Therefore, man, please remember this. I want to point out one of the most vital aspects. First of all, it says, in the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. In the original text, it does not say God.

Remember that because of the ignorance and illiteracy of some of the translators, what has been called God, Spirit of God, Lord God, and so on, each of these means a different level of the vibratory impact of the divine intention.

And so they have completely lost the idea. For instance, in the very first verse, it says, in the beginning god created the heaven and the earth but then at the end of the first verse it says and the spirit of god moved upon the face of the waters now that is more than correct but it should have said the spirits of god because in qabalah you have one ahea the indivisible the divine unity then you have the number two which has been mistranslated jehovah which is really a formula a vibratory formula yod he vahe which we chant right here we also chant ahea the number one because we're tuning ourselves into divinity on its different levels of expressions that's what's waking us up and making life richer whether we realize it or not and that which has been mistranslated jehovah is really yod he vahe which is a formula for chanting and is one of the several lost words of god And this chanting, which we do here, incidentally, is aimed at awakening us into using the powers of our own deity or divinity.

And the chanting of the Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh that we do right here in our work has to do with getting a vibratory rate going so we can share the consciousness of the Most High and the powers. But all of creation, incidentally, is involved with what here has been called the Spirit of God. You know what the Spirit of God is? Boys, don't get upset. Elohim. And that is the Divine Mother, female principle. It's the female Spirit of God, and it's seven spirits in union with the masculine Spirit of God. That is why later we will go through all the line. As I point it out to you, each single verse gives you the exact steps that science now acknowledges when they think of life as coming from the original atom and conjoining into more organized forms. We finally then come to the part where, in verse 26, it says, And God said, Let us… Now here's where the translators forgot or just didn't realize and managed to let a portion slip loose that is an exact translation. Here you have no errors.

And verse 26, you can go home and read it yourself, in Genesis 1, and God said, let us make man in our image after our likeness. Now, what does that sound like to you?

It isn't saying God said let me or let I, let us.

And actually, it isn't God. In the original text, it's and yod-heh-voh-heh-elohim, which means father mother God in conjunction or union let us which means they're going to create just like we create our children in case you want to now though on a level that we are not yet awakened to or have not yet attained spiritually but it is the same principle unifying and giving birth to portions of itself this is the point and God said let us make man in our image after our likeness and let them now this is another point man and then it says them all right man and them what does that mean man is then being spoken of as generic isn't it actually the original text says adam which means generic humanity and the later development and shows it as it was manifested. So here we have, and let them, which means man or generic humanity, have dominion over the fish of the sea. Now in Qabalah, do you know what the fish of the sea is? Tarot key number 13, the Hebrew letter Nun, which isn't up above here at the moment, but it will be showing you when we have our special gadget to just put keys in and out for you it will with this lighting which is being prepared for you now incidentally the fish is the hebrew letter noon and it relates to the creative power of god the seed of god which on the physical plane is the reproductive power it is called scorpio which astronomy astrologers have a terrible fear of because it relates to the reproductive organs and therefore for the sexual magnetic powers and expression.

And so, of course, lowly evolved creatures call it bad and evil, mainly because they're afraid of it and haven't evolved to a point where they can control it spiritually and use it as intended. That is, let's see, a heart full of the love that God is.

Nevertheless, the fish of the sea, you notice this is the very first thing that is used, and this is complete Qabalistic language. The sea, incidentally, is one of the names of the cosmic mother which is called Bina, Ima and Elohim which we chant.

She is called the great sea, the cosmic sea out of which all life comes both in its higher spiritual sense as well as its so-called lower which isn't lower, it's merely a vibratory rate that's more concentrated so that the having let us make man in our image there you have cosmic father cosmic mother and not just one of them but the seven spirits of the most high which are being expressed by the one the indivisible the ahaya and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea which means dominion over your own reproductive processes and And do you know what that means? You reproduce to begin with and always on the plane of your consciousness, your mind. None of this has yet manifested on a physical plane. We're going to take up the manifestation and the beginning of good and evil next week and just what is involved in its true esoteric recognition and realization in the mystery schools.

But the point is, the dominion over the fish of the sea as being the first, that is, the dominion over what we reproduce reproduce from ourselves. And just as God or deity reproduce, let us make man in our image, we reproduce everything out of the fish by our dominion over the fish of the sea. And it isn't that you have to get dominion. I want to point this out to you. You've got it. You've got dominion. You have dominion over the reproductive powers of your life because your thinking, your feeling, as well as your marital expressions are all the one energy being expressed in different ways. They're the same energy. Therefore, you have the dominion. It is merely the level you have been expressing it on.

And the first plan or pattern put on the drawing board, as our beloved Felix loves to call it, of God, is that we have this dominion and we are in the process of learning how to control this dominion. This is the kundalini force. Incidentally of our Eastern brethren that's what they call it this Dominion has to do with having it understood as the creative energy of life which we are being blessed with by God and this blessing has to do with our knowledge of it being an expression of the love of God which means the love of one for another it is the oneness that must be known and understood so we have that and And then we're told, and over the dominion, over the foul of the air, over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth, that really also then has to do with our own dominion over our own subconscious nature, which happens to be the lower level of the whole evolutionary scale, which is coming up.

But it is our dominion, man then, is the one who, as creative spirit, spirit made in the image and likeness of the divine spirit of life or God, is the one who is not only meant to have dominion, but incidentally he has dominion. Therefore, everything, the point then that we want to make, and the whole of Genesis really shows this, when we learn to read it Kabbalistically, and the Qabalists wrote it, and only their interpretation is valid and I am a trained Qabalist and I say my interpretation is the only valid one except for other Qabalists who would interpret it in the same way because we know the language you cannot interpret a language you have not been trained and only when you're trained in this language and have spoken to those who know the language on the inner being then do do you know what was really meant? Now then, all of this, and God said it was good, each cycle, a day is really a cycle in Qabalah, each cycle brought about the development, and God said it was good.

Certainly it was good and is good. The point is, all of Genesis 1 is still in its patterned form on what we call in Qabalah the formative world.

And in the Eastern thinking, thinking, it might be called the world of the higher mind.

Now the world of the higher mind is not a Qabalistic formative world, but this is the closest approximation we can make to the two schools of thought. And this means that everything that has been set as a pattern in these higher vibratory levels, as God said, has vibration.

It's vibration which begins with thought, with intention, with mind, with feeling, and and then gradually coalesces into a concentration of self-experience, which we call manifestation.

The thing, then, to bear in mind is that everything that happens to you on the physical plane happens to you because you have dominion of the fish of the sea, your creative energy. Therefore, your reproductive and creative energy. You have dominion and you create according to the level of your evolutionary understanding and perception, just like a child will play a piece on the piano in accordance with the level of its training until it becomes a real virtuoso, whether it be the piano or the organ or the violin or any musical instrument. We play the life, the game of life, which is incidentally tarot. The whole tarot pack called the game of life originally we play this game in accordance with our level of understanding we aren't going to get dominion we have dominion but the manifestation is always in accordance with the growth level of our perception of how to handle these energies energy. Everything, therefore, that happens to you on the physical plane, until we take up Genesis 2 and show you its more complete manifestation, to give you something concrete to work with until next Sunday, bear this in mind. Everything that happens to you on the physical plane happens to you not because of anybody else. This is your dominion, the pattern you have built, in accordance with your level of understanding or misunderstanding.

And you will throw yourself into all kinds of emotional hysterics because of your misunderstanding, just like a child will throw itself into emotional hysterics when mama or papa won't let it cross the street to catch a nice colorful ball, even though the traffic would kill it if the child managed to get away from mama and papa but to try to catch that ball. So we have the repercussions of our ignorance. There isn't anything that happens that doesn't happen first on the upper and inner plane. All of Genesis 1 is the laying down of a pattern or the plan. It doesn't even remotely start to manifest till Genesis 2, as you shall see. And we shall then show you how good and evil came into the world. And this is something we all must understand. If you have people who are troubled about good and evil, bring them along next Sunday. It's a very vital thing to know, both within our own hearts and souls, as well as in relation to the world and to others.

Life, then. Whatever occurs, we are made in the image and likeness of the Most High, the Most High being those spirits of God which are in conjunction or union, male and female. Male we have all the powers and because we have all the powers we have all the dominion nothing that occurs then can be blamed on anyone else nor on ourselves it is a level of unfoldment which you shall see when we come to the next chapter but I do want you to have something to hold your mind to to lift your heart towards for the rest of this week uh in terms of this series of talks relating to qabalistic interpretation of the bible and what I want you to hold your mind to is this that once a problem is starting to express itself on the physical plane you need not keep yourself in hysterical misery the end is already decided it or it wouldn't have started to manifest I don't know if you can understand this I hope so I'm giving you a very important message there are many tonight who need or this morning who need it once it has already started to manifest it's finished it's already there in other words the whole pattern is already there on that part or in that part of your consciousness which is before manifestation as Genesis 1. The plan, the pattern is already there. Because whatever is going to manifest is what you require to learn something, to grow something, to deepen something in your own consciousness and being as you grow towards your full godhood or knowledge of your godhood.

And what happens isn't at all as important as your understanding and acceptance of the fact that if it has started to manifest you don't have to scream rave rant hit others over the head or yourself what is going to happen you have to at that a point and that point only say I accept the will of god which is really the will of your higher soul which is an aspect of god but if it has not yet manifest started to manifest on the physical plane you have full dominion you You can change anything, because it's still on the formative plane of your own consciousness, which you are growing and drawing, putting on the drawing board of your growth pattern. And you can still change, fill in, emanate your own emotions, your thought, your image. You are made in the image and likeness. Let us make man in our image and likeness. You have it. Now, this, I hope, is going to help give you a little touch of the peace, which passes understanding.

It'll start you towards it.

And also, it'll help you to start to work in that area where you can really make the changes because you're still creating as God creates.

Start watching it and know that your heart can be at peace no matter what is happening. You're on your way towards the next height, growth, evolution, and love.

Let your heart reach to love, whatever your heart and mind reach towards. Remember, that's what you're creating.

You have the dominion, and we will understand next week a little more fully that which disturbs us in terms of good and evil, and male and female created he then.

God bless you.
