I noticed in this note that they say something about because of there being no regular class on Thursday but Thanksgiving, that there wouldn't be a Monday tape. I hope I'm not going to give our beloved and adorable Frater Felix a nervous breakdown.

But I say if anyone comes on Monday, there are always so many other tapes. One can find a Sunday talk of long before or various other ideas. Is and I feel those who have a need whatever few two or three to listen to a monday tape there's something that can be found please felix will you still love me he'll try he can't help it because I love him you see so isn't that an awful way to take advantage of love very nice though makes life much more more pleasant. But I don't think that we should close off Monday, because we're having something different Thursday. There are other things. If anyone needs to come on Monday afternoon, they get used to something to keep them inspired and helped through the week. And even if it was one person, that one person is very precious. All right, now we then go ahead with our talk. Actually, if you recall, for this month I'm giving interpretations of Genesis number one, Genesis number two, Genesis number three, and the book of Job, as related to Qabalistic knowledge.

And as you remember, I have reminded you that there can be no real interpretation, except except one knows Qabalah, since it happens to have been Qabalists, who've written these particular books of the Bible which have mystical meaning as such. Aside from your history, which is also vital and interesting, and aside from an understanding and interest in genetics, where we know who knew who and begat who, which also gives a certain line of genetic structure, very interesting because genetics does help to bend the vehicle towards receptivity in certain ways.

Aside from that, remember, there are special books in the Bible which were written by those trained in the mystical wisdom of Israel, the secret wisdom of Israel, if you please, and those who translated it, being unaware of this, have given us a lot of nonsense because of their mistranslations.

We've therefore had a lot of tremendous emotional upheavals, guilt, and even development of the evil and ugly part of the evolving nature of man because of the misinterpretation of the actual intention attention of those who gave us certain mystery teachings in the symbolic language. And this is again why it is certainly known by all scholars, and certainly all scholars of the mystical and occult traditions, that it is utterly impossible to know, to understand, what portions of the Bible have meaning and what meanings these portions have, unless unless you know the language and the thinking of those who wrote it. Now, the prophets of the Bible, Old and New Testament, were trained in Qabalah. This is well known by those who have even remotely researched the subject.

Incidentally, it might interest you to know that this is why in the British countries you have a far greater open-mindedness to Qabalistic teaching. Than you do in other places, because they are something like 50 years ahead of us in research into the historical aspects of metaphysics, occultism, psychic research, and so on. And those of us who are part of the California and very particularly the Los Angeles area have the disadvantage in one way of being so surrounded with what Dr. Case used to call metaphysical tramps.

We have the disadvantage of being so surrounded with people who are hunting violently and emotionally for psychic phenomena phenomena and accepting psychic phenomena as truth, who therefore listen to every undeveloped astrologer, though astrology has something that is true. They listen to every undeveloped hand reader. Those who were really trained and highly evolved would know what to do with reading of the hands. They have they are hunting continuously for that which is different or what they consider phenomenal because they haven't remotely realized that the most phenomenal and extraordinary miracle that exists is the fact that we can sit and look at each other, see each other interpret each other, listen to each other anywhere, I don't mean just here I think here we do it much more in accordance with divine principles naturally. I'm sure you realize it too. But anywhere, the powers of our consciousness are very apparent. And we interpret life, experiences, people, only on the level that we are able to perceive them. And since we are not perfected beings as yet, naturally we are going to see and interpret life, people, and experiences in ways that are not in accordance with complete reality. And the repercussions, the very repercussions, will force us, if we are true aspirants, if we have developed a really vital drive towards wanting reality beyond all else, the very experiences which bring us discomfort sadness, disillusionment will actually drive us into looking again and again and again until we can see truly now there are certain books in the Bible which are written by the prophets who were trained in the esoteric wisdom of Israel not all of them this is the point And only a trained Qabalist knows which is which, because the language gives it away.

If you hear a French accent, you know someone is from France.

And if you hear a Russian accent, you know they come from Russia. And if you hear a Spanish accent, you know they come from Spain. Well, everyone gives themselves away. We all have accents, as far as the way we think and feel and react to life, even though the accent may not be exactly in the verbal sense of saying something with a little twist that another would say with a different twist but the point is Genesis 1 one, two, and three, happen to be amongst the most profound catalystic statements of creation and the most profoundly misunderstood and misinterpreted parts of creation, that is, intention, of those who had gone ahead and gave us a story, which was not a story, but an interpretation or an imagery or a group of images to show us how the universe life consciousness man how you how you came into being all right then if you recall last week I pointed out to you that in genesis 1 we have a whole line of creation and god said showing a certain vibratory impact which brought about and pretty much finished up with the idea of god but not god because because remember I pointed out to you that for those who translated, being misinformed, ignorant, educated only in part, and a little knowledge is such a dangerous thing, gave us only a partial translation.

And although they did say things like, and God said, another point they said, and Lord God said, who knows what that means? We just skip it by, don't we? But remember what I have told you we do a very powerful ceremony here every Sunday and we do another aspect of it during classes and this ceremony that we do involves what? Exactly what the mistranslators of the Qabalistic portions of the Bible called God or Jehovah or Lord God and so on And actually, as I have tried to show you over and over again, there is a vibratory power and a vibratory level, which would really involve what? A certain plane of descent of consciousness, which is vibratory. Everything is a vibratory rate, from the most minute to the broadest.

And this vibratory rate is exactly what was known and understood and used. So that the idea of losing the pronunciation of the name of God, which later comes up in the Bible, involves this very thing, this knowledge of the power of the vibratory rate and the realization that the one God or the one creator in different levels of its own creative self-expression is in a different vibratory form.

Now then, Genesis 1 and Genesis 2 have been the greatest mysteries to people.

Why? Because they haven't bothered to go to the source.

Genesis 1 gives you a whole line of creation which includes clues. And then God said, let us create man after our own image. Please notice the plural. Let us, after our image and likeness. And let them, here it says man, and then it says let them have dominion. And then it goes on to mention the dominion. You recall that. We took it up last week. Now, this week, what happened? All of a sudden, you have something as though nothing was created at all, don't you? And how many of you have puzzled about it? Raise up your hands. I'd like to know. How many of you have raised your hand and wondered? Why? All right. Most of you.

Most of you. All right. Now, I pointed out to you last week that creation actually is one thing and formation another. In Qabalah, if you recall, those of you who attend Thursday night classes or listen to the Monday afternoon tapes from it should be remembering, definitely, because this is a very important point, that in Qabalah you have the idea of the four worlds, just like in our Eastern philosophies, you have the idea of the seven planes.

Now, the Qabalistic four worlds, really, these are not different than the Eastern philosophy that carries the seven planes, because the fourth world is really divided into four planes. And so if you take the three above, you still have your seven planes but Qabalah is more succinct and divides the last of the the lowest which doesn't mean evil incidentally plane into its four partitions that's why on the tree of life which you don't have showing at the moment but you can look in the back if you want to see oh yeah that's right they stole I painted it and they stole it from me that's what spiritual people do, I just want you to realize it. They put it here for all of us to enjoy except me.

But I enjoy it if it's helping you at least. That's what I'll tell myself until I become accustomed to the idea. Bless your heart. But if you notice that lowest of fear, you'll see it's divided into four portions and often in alchemy called the four elements. So that you have exactly the same seven planes in Qabalah that you do have in the Eastern philosophies, but utilized in a different manner and, incidentally, in a far more practical manner because we are of the West. It doesn't matter what race we have come from. If we were born in the West or if karma brought us to the West, we are part of the Western culture and we have to grow through the Western mass mind because this is what we've become a part of. This is our growth pattern we are part of each other now then here in Genesis 1 it sounds crazy doesn't it people became atheists over this they said the Bible the holy word of God look at this crazy nonsense and you know I was one of them so I ought to know but when you study the original instead of listening to the translators who didn't know what they were doing they just knew how to translate words. Those of you who know more than one language would realize that you get ideas and shadings of ideas in one language, which you may try and try to put in another language, you never really succeed. You can use up 10, 12, 100 pages trying to get the shading of an idea because of one word, and you can't find an exact translation for it, because of the difference of the emotional response and the understanding and the consciousness. This is the reason it's very good to know more than one language. If you don't know more than one language, actually, it keeps you from seeing this principle as clearly as you could, and therefore you you wouldn't perhaps understand the difference, as you would if you knew more than one language, as to what can happen in translation.

You have your problem with semantics. One word means one thing to another person and another thing to another. And then you have three or four words that one person will think gives an idea, and it mightn't. It mightn't give the real idea at all. So that you have in your translations of the original manuscript that have to do with Qabalah. As I said, not all the Bible. You don't want to call the Bible the word of God from now till doomsday. I mean, if you want to feel that whoever beget everybody and knew everybody down the line that this is also the word of God, that's your privilege. I think all union is a divine activity.

But is it a divine message? But there are certain books in the Bible that are. And these are the ones that were written by the Qabalists. And Genesis 1, 2, and 3 are part of the few, and I'm saying they're very few books, that really are part of the mystical knowledge, which is the oldest mystical knowledge on the face of this earth, no matter what anyone wants to claim, because the oral tradition has been there and has been proved correct. Now then, you have in your chapter 1 all these steps of creation, and then in chapter 2, what happens? All of a sudden you hear that there were no seeds or flowers here in chapter 1 it says God created the growing things to be as meat for the creatures it says in chapter 1 God created the creatures it says in chapter 1 and God said let us make man after our own image and all of a sudden in chapter 2 you find that there was not a man to till the earth and that nothing was growing in the earth, and it sounds insane.

But, my darlings, here is the real essence of true occult knowledge.

In the Qabalistic four worlds, which correlates with every true clairvoyant seeing that has seen from the higher spiritual plane, and which correlates with all of the higher experiences, experiences. Creation does not take place on the physical plane at all. Never. And as I mentioned to you last Sunday, creation begins in consciousness, always, and always has and always will. It is consciousness that creates. Therefore, if you think of divinity, say, as sort of relaxing. I hope not with a cigarette. It's said to be unhealthy, though I like one. But whatever.

But if you can think of deity, and it's good to sort of bring it down to an anthropomorphic idea because it brings it closer to our consciousness. We're part of deity.

And why not think of deity as expressing all forms and saying, all right, now I'm in a creative mood. Haven't you been in creative moods if you're musicians, if you're poets if you like to write something if you wanted to create some kind of effect in your garden or in your house if you just wanted to move your furniture around or sew something or cook something it's a creative mood isn't it haven't you sat back and said well now let's see if I do this and this and combine this and this I'll get this effect you're creating are you not but where are you creating in your consciousness.

And you say, now, if I do this and this, this and this should be the result. But you never know what it'll be like till you've done it, have, do you? We all create in our consciousness, all of us, without exception, in all sorts of ways.

Things that we don't realize are creative. They're still creative because we can't help it. And so Genesis 1 is actually giving in terms of the four Qabalistic worlds, it's giving the first two aspects of creation, which is what? In my Thursday night classes, I mention this. It is giving what we call the abstract or archetypal plane, where the idea, the abstract idea, is first, you might say, manifested abstractly in the consciousness of deity or the creative principle. And along with that, what is called the next plane of creation, which in Hebrew is called Bria, and it's called the creative world.

And the creative world, if you remember, I've spoken to you about it before, has to do with an idea. Dr. Case's analogy is good. The abstract idea is the idea of sitting. The creative world says sitting would involve what? A certain position of the body plus chairs.

The formative world, which is the third world, then starts thinking up all kinds of chairs. As I pointed out to you, whatever creative principle formed the chairs you're sitting on, you may decide it's time they were formed. And of course there are chairs for all kinds of sitting. Sitting, comfortable, uncomfortable, and in between. Still, these are all. Then, the actual experience you're having, this is what's called the world of a CEO, or the physical or material expression, which tests the original creative idea of how would it work. And so in time, we'll decide, boy, this was a lousy creative kind of activity. Let's throw it all out and let's get some new ones or different ones or more comfortable ones in time. But we condense it into a step-by-step thing. And in the creative principle of deity, it doesn't take place in what seems to us a long period. But remember, we're the microscopic aspect of deity experiencing its own thought.

Creative element.

So in Genesis 1, you have the original creation in consciousness.

Let us make man after our own image.

Let him have, or let them have, dominion. And man was male and female, created they them. Man, therefore, male and female. Remember what I told you, it isn't man, it's Adam. And Adam means generic humanity. So you have nothing on the physical plane yet in Genesis 1. It is exactly in accordance with understanding of the power of consciousness. But in Genesis 2, you're suddenly told that there's nothing that exists yet.

And isn't that a shock? You say, what's the matter with them? The point is, in Genesis 2, you've gone into the formative world of Qabalah, which in the Eastern philosophies is called that part of consciousness the world of mana or the mental the mental plane where you're starting to form more distinct images in other words you're making ways and means so that you have certain very interesting things that are brought out here and being 22 years old I'll now read a point or two since I can't After 22, you can't see as clearly close up without glasses, you know.

Now, so that in Genesis 1, everything is already supposedly created. But in Genesis 2, you hear what? That God blessed the seventh day because it was a completion. In other words, everything was done and it was blessed. And so the seventh day he rested. Now remember the seven chakras. And in Qabalah we call it the seven inner holy planets.

So that the creation has occurred. People wonder why people can have pre-vision. This is part of the secret.

Anything that has already happened on the inner plane of creation, the Qabalistic plane of creation, this, the part of your consciousness, which is an eternal part of the creative deity, already knows, but it hasn't experienced it yet. It's created it, but it still has to be brought into manifestation in order for you to find out how well you've done it. You know, you can do some pretty awful things when you first learn how to write. Of course, unfortunately, I'm still illegible.

God will have to worry about that. I have too many other problems to deal with at the moment. But there's some things we don't seem to do as well during a period we wish we would. It. Then now, in Genesis 2, verse 5, you notice it says, and every plant of the field had to be created before it grew, because there was not a man to till the ground. Now, mind you, in Genesis 1, all plants were created. In Genesis 2, there were no plants. There There was no man to till the ground.

Do you realize what this implies?

We had still not developed. The consciousness of deity had still not brought about. Man was created. In other words, you were created. That spark, you, that is the eternal creative spark of God.

It was created. But it had not yet gone to work to express the powers of your father and mother and by God, don't you forget your mother, Elohim I insist on that because all of Genesis 1 when it says and they, it's really Yod-Heh-Vo-Heh-Elohim remember, that means father-mother and we must keep the feminine principle and the cosmic mother in with it together otherwise we'll continue becoming divided and miserable as you shall see since we're supposed to be dealing with Adam and Eve at the moment aren't we all right so there was nothing that grew yet because there was no man to till the soil and then in verse 6 a mist went up to water the earth now watering the earth means that the feminine principle because water is a print is a symbol of that in Qabalah the feminine principle Elohim is called the great seas and or and the water had to go up to water what does it mean the divine soul which is a feminine principle had to embrace and bring into a correlation into a concentration this image this image of deity which is both male and female and so we still though though man you're already created mind you but you're not formed can you see the difference between being created and formed I hope so because you've created many things in your mind that you never formed on earth haven't you maybe that'll give you an idea of what's meant how many poems and songs how many speeches have you made to people tell them where they ought to go in your mind. You created them. You didn't form it. You never told them.

So maybe that's a good way to sort of bring it into a little succinct fashion. At any rate, you have that. Then in verse 7, you have, And Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living soul. Now, mind you, this is in Genesis 2, after man is created. So what does it show?

I mean, here you're then having the descent of the image that is able to electromagnetically draw the energies into itself, into this form. From what? The dust of the earth. What's the dust of the earth? You have the dust of the cosmos. Every electron, every atom, every bit of the cosmic rays which are really portions of the divine substance as we can see them in a special way, though they have other elements in them. This is the dust of the ground. This is really the division of the foundations from Genesis 1, basically. And hasn't it been found by our modern and scientific research, that everything that exists has developed from the correlation, the coming together of the atomic complexities, bringing about what you can call the dust of the ground. Isn't it the most beautiful poetic expression? And does that mean that we are something low? Have you forgotten that the earth is a member of the heavens?

Have you overlooked the fact that the earth is made out of the same substance as the sun, only more complex, therefore something more than the sun? Have you forgotten that you're made out of star stuff?

What's wrong with being made out of the dust of the earth and then breathed into the nostrils of man, mind you?

The spirit. What does that mean? It means the livingness, the ability to be so living that you have the same power that the deity that created everything has.

You self-produce.

You can have children.

Can't you?

You reproduce yourself as a species.

Isn't this something?

Exactly. In the image and likeness, you reproduce your children in your own image and likeness. Of course, I did a better job on me than... I mean, I did a better job on me that my mother did on her. And I did an even better job on my daughter. And I did an even better job on my grandson. God might want to take the credit.

The point is, God can. Because I say it's the God in all of us that does these things. That's the point. If we love that which is our offspring, think how we should love the deity in us that has the power.

And keep in mind then that here, only in Genesis 2, are we starting to bring a form. And this in Qabalah is called the formative world, the world of Yetzirah. And incidentally, it's still not physical. I think I'm going to upset you at the moment. It's really still not physical. This is what we call the astral world, actually. Or it's part of the astral world. The first forms that actually have distinct ability when you think. Thought forms come about. Clairvoyants see it. So in the world of Yatsuri, you still haven't got it really that physical as yet. You're still working with the power of the condensation of the consciousness of yourself as deity. And deity is really creating you at the same time. You are deity creating in an area. It is all a graduating scale. And the thing that shows this more than anything thing is that then when a deity planted in the Garden of Eden, and do you know what Eden means, incidentally?

Here we're starting to come to the physical plane more, although it's something more than that. Eden means the Garden of Delight. And would you like to be shocked a little bit? I'll give you a nice little shock. It also means the ecstasy of union between the pairs of opposites.

That's the Garden of Eden in Qabalah. In other words creation comes about through the ecstasy of union between the pairs of opposites and isn't that how you were born whether your mother or father realized it or not the flowers every creature the ecstasy of union the garden of Eden if you will interpret it in the language that it was originally written in this is its meaning this is its meaning the union of divine masculine and divine feminine and wherever it occurs it's an aspect of that and this is why the garden of Eden has been planted with the tree of life at its center, because this is the livingness. This is what makes you divine. This is what gives you the ability to reproduce, and every other living thing, because it's also divine, on its level of self-evolution at the moment. And then we have the planting of the tree of good and evil, which we can take up next Sunday morning because this is something it's very important to understand.

Why then did deity plant not the garden of eagles the garden in the middle of the garden a beautiful tree of life. You see the tree of life right there.

I painted it. I created it, didn't I? I'm as good as God in my field. I hope.

If not, God will have to grow me a little more. We all are, you know. That's the whole point. We've got to chuckle with our own evolution and our love of deity.

Now, but there was also planted the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and that we're going to take up next Sunday morning. And that is very important for you to understand if you're going to know what morals really are or not. If you're going to know how to follow your own ethics, you've got to understand this principle in reality and not as the world has told you it is, because, after all, those who translated didn't remotely know what they were doing. You had a whole bunch of people using their own idea of what a word meant. It could have meant seven, ten, a dozen different things, and each person colored it with their own idea. You got something poetic, but not in accordance with what was taught. And it's important for those of us who've been conditioned by the Bible in the Western sphere, and rightly so, if only it had been by Qabalists, by the real mystery training, to understand what it is that's involved.

And you will be able to transmute yourselves into true perception because you already have the symbols inside of you. Now, the thing that we have to bear in mind then is that here, after all of these plantings and these other creations, God decided it wasn't good for man to live alone.

And yet, man is Adam, and that means generic humanity.

So it was decided that it isn't good for generic humanity to live alone. And what does that mean? Well, incidentally, I can't go into that for you this morning. It's much too long. I'm going to give a whole long course, God knows how long. I may cut it off in the middle if people get too upset after this one, which I'm preparing for my Thursday night classes, which is going to deal with this dividing of the masculine-feminine principles and all the correlations in our practical life.

But why should it say that God decided, Lord God decided, it's not good for man to live alone? Man was actually at that point generic humanity, but remember, this is still not the physical plane. It is starting to form. We're in the formative world, which is really the astral world bringing down into etheric substance. It's images that are already starting to come down, but not yet. There's a preparation of the physical plane, but it isn't yet really an accomplished physical plane. It is still in the subtle energies, in the subtle vibrations. It is still in the area that you can't register with an instrument, though someday science will register these areas with their instruments, because we're becoming more and more aware of these energies that we're not aware of with our ears and noses and touch and tongue, as you well know. We're seeing things now that we could never see before. And then a very vital thing happened, which is very important for you to understand, so that you'll know why and how so many of the troubles came about. Because then in verse 19, now here, remember, in the first chapter of Genesis, you have the idea, first you had the creation of plants, then animal, then man.

Remember? And that's exactly the order of evolution, as it has to finally take place on the physical plane. But here, you're in the world of Yetzirah, Kabbalistically. And only a Qabalist knows what they're talking about. And you haven't got the same order at all, because here, Lord God formed all creatures out of the dust of the ground and brought them to Adam.

Now, do you see what that means? Here Adam already is, and the creatures are being formed afterwards. Do you realize the significance of this? If not, I'm going to tell you. What it means is that you, as sons and daughters, as living souls, the spirit of divinity having been breathed into your nostrils, You were created on the inner levels, or the field of Yathira and Bria, before animals were created on the physical plane. It's very distinct, and incidentally, it is true.

We are the forerunners of evolution. And the reason we are is because in some previous evolution, perhaps in some very distant star, perhaps in this one, we already went through the earlier stages of our consciousness learning how to handle itself in a concentration as plants and so-called animals. In other words, all life is God.

But here, in this evolution, what happens? You you Adam generic humanity are before animals in Genesis 2 in the formative plane because then God brings God brought them that is the creatures out of the dust of the ground to Adam to see what he would name them to see what he would name them Do you know what the creatures are of the dust of the ground? It's everything that has to do with what we call in Qabalah the world of yes, that it's your animal vital soul that we all share.

You, every one of you, I, all of us, we share this animal vital soul with everything that lives without any separation whatsoever. If you don't like feeling that you're at one with an ant, You'll have to learn to. If you don't like feeling you're one with an asp, too bad. You're still one with it. If you don't like feeling that you're one with a serpent, with a snake, with a lion, a tiger, with a spider, too bad.

If you think you're not one with them, you just have to grow a little longer.

You have to grow a little larger. You're going to discover that there's nothing that lives that isn't one with you.

Everything is one with you. And why would divinity bring, then, before yet there is a physical plane, man to name these creatures? I'll tell you why. Because you had already achieved the evolutionary level of the creativity of your mind, so that you give the character to everything that is. In other words, do you hate this planet? Most of you do, you know, you really do. You hate life feeding on life, don't you? I do. I don't hate the planet, but I hate life feeding on life. Do you You hate what you see, the law of tooth and claw.

If you're spiritual aspirants, you hate it.

You do. You don't hate the creature, but you hate the principle of tooth and claw. Maybe you even comfort yourself and say, well, it's necessary. But how comforted are you really? You know how alcoholics will rationalize their alcoholism and say it's because somebody mistreats me or the condition is bad. You know how the weak soul will excuse their weakness and blame it on somebody else. You know how everything that's wrong, if we have an unhappy marriage, it's the husband's fault or the wife's fault. Whoever is doing the thinking, the wife's naturally blaming him and he's blaming her.

And if you have an unhappy relationship with parents and children, the children are blaming the parents and the parents of children. I mean, we're always blaming somebody else or the neighbor.

But the point is, this is one of the most fabulously esoteric pronouncements about the naming of the creatures. The point is, remember, all through Genesis 1 and 2, you're certainly being given the realization that man has dominion over all the creeping creatures, creatures, whether in the ocean or in the air or on the ground or under the ground, right? Now, in Qabalah, the whole vital animal soul is that mass mind that we share not only with each other, but with all living creatures. That's why you have the lynch mind mob reaction. You get mobs together and they have a tendency to go to the lowest because we haven't got enough highest yet to help with. One of you, it could take just one of you sitting here, that could make a different balance on the scales of the so-called good and evil or Adam and Eve idea in your understanding or interpretation or naming. In other words, we named the creature. We hate the idea of what some creatures do to other creatures.

Let me tell you something I do.

I hate it. I don't hate the creatures. I hate the way it's done. But the point is this.

Children, what do they do? Don't they do the most horrible things in learning how to handle their consciousness?

They break and they tear and they rend. And haven't you seen children mistreat living creatures because they haven't learned how to project their imagination into what that other creature would feel? They haven't learned how to feel for another thing because their own powers are more important. Haven't we all done it? Some of us can't bear to remember, but it's all right to remember. Children should act as children. They grow up eventually. The point is, we hate what we see on this planet. And I know that those who have brilliant intellects look it over and say, God, after all, is all creative. God could have done anything. What kind of God is it that creates this kind of horror and evil? Since if he's the architect on the drawing board, that's what one of my most beloved, adorable intellectual ones has said more times than I can tell you, why couldn't he have drawn on his drawing board something other than this hell and horror of creature feeding on creature, the inhumanity not only of man to man, which is horrible, but man to all other living things. Why? But if you start to think about it and analyze it, you'll see. Suppose we, you and I, because we are children made in the image and likeness of the most high which we are can create and in our creation we name the creatures and you know haven't you heard the saying name it and it's yours you name a thing and you give it its character you name a thing and you give it its nature I mean this is a symbolic idea people a lot of nonsensical superstitious people go in for numbers and all that kind of business and think you're going to change because you get yourself a new number on a house or something no no this is a deep symbolic thing that has to do with your consciousness you interpret a thing and so it will be for you and that is what is called naming it we interpret areas of life and creatures and these creatures are in us they're not outside of us so we have a world that is like it is why Why? Because this is our creation.

We are Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh Elohim. Does that mean that God is horrible? No. Children are testing how to get the perfect building, the perfect expression of the image. And God saw that it was good. That's the original intention. But while you're building your bridge or your house, you have a mess, don't you? Well we're in the midst of our myth but we have named the creatures and we can keep understanding the more we see into these creatures the more we recognize they're not what we've named and we start changing their names and as we start changing the names it's in us we start changing our relationships and then in verse 21 it says Lord God brought asleep on Adam and out of his rib he took Eve and Adam said because she was brought out of the rib we will call her woman which means out you know the latter part of man out of man and she shall be called flesh of my flesh and bone of my bone I've got news for you darlings it doesn't have to do with male female shock pure Qabalah do you know what Eve is?

Look at the bottom sephirah. Eve, in Hebrew, is Chava, which actually means kingdom, though there are many different names. Also, it's queen.

And the queen is the bride of the king, and the king actually is generic humanity, Adam, Christ, the son or shall we say the offspring of God which is male and female as originally created in the first so that the whole idea of Eve being the feminine part of humanity in the creation is because nobody knows Qabalah and though I'll play along with it because this is how you're you're trained to think. I will woo and entice you into seeing it other.

Eve, Mother Earth, you've heard of Mother Earth. Eve is really Mother Earth. Out of the rib really means out of the breath and spirit. You know how your ribs go in and out when you breathe? Try it.

And Kabbalistically, you get to, and also out of the procreativeness, It's also a symbol of the actual expression of the procreative principles of male-female. And notice, they were naked and were not ashamed.

In other words, humanity was in contact and finally started to take on the experience of physical form. That's the physical kingdom for expression. And they were not ashamed. In other words, there was an innocence and there was a beauty. There was a glory and there was a happiness in the interrelations. The innocence of those who have not yet gone into the eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Next Sunday we'll continue this whole story and I've gone way too long in this talk, I know.

Perhaps what we should do is skip part of our ending so you can all get home a little earlier.

And we'll make up for it by doing a little extra meditation next Sunday because I know we have gone quite long. But this is a very important point in order for us to understand the full significance of good and evil which we'll take up next Sunday and what was really taught.
