As you know, this Sunday morning we are giving you the Qabalistic interpretation of Genesis 3, which deal with what appears to be the development of good and evil. And please bear in mind that for the last two weeks we have taken Genesis number 1 and Genesis number 2 and we have shown you that that these are actual documents of metaphysical import, mistranslated, misrepresented, misunderstood, and having caused a host of problems, including atheism. Certainly, that's part of what made me an atheist for the few years that I enjoyed it. Incidentally, it was very enjoyable being an atheist. You know, one felt sort of cocky about it. It's an account of the youth also, remember? But after a while, when intelligence comes, naturally we realize that this is a very foolish thing to be. Still, we go through stages where we need to throw away all the nonsense, all the nonsensical interpretations which have been given us, the brainwashings that have become part of our emotional reactions.

And so even atheism can be constructive, provided we don't get lost in it and stay in it beyond a very limited period, just enough to cleanse ourselves from the teaching and training of ignorant minds, which have made it impossible for us to continue on in our evolutionary necessity. All right then, bear in mind that I pointed out to you that in Genesis number 1 we have what is called creation, and it's definitely called creation, and that inasmuch as the actual mystical aspects, that is the Qabalistic aspects of the Bible, were written by those who were trained in the secret wisdom of Israel, that only when one knows this language does does not one know what was actually said? And those of you who know more than one language will understand very well, very well indeed, as I was discussing with our beloved Anne Ryan yesterday, because she, as you know, is so well trained in the psychiatric field, she thinks this frightens you, if you know about it, but I don't think it does.

I think all you have to do is look at her and see that she's so lovable at the fact that she's a trained psychiatric social worker. Just makes her that much more lovable because she has the spiritual training along with the scientific knowledge.

And I was discussing with her yesterday as we were going over certain requirements for the work, this very idea that we're mentioning now, how difficult it is to understand what another person means, our semantic problems. We say something to another individual and the other individual will often say, oh, I understand.

And yet they can be at opposite ends of the pole. They never understood it all.

Also then, think. You have certain subtleties of ideas, you have subtleties of emotion, and some of them are not subtle at all, that go with expression from language to language.

And everyone who speaks one language goes into a state of frustration in attempting to give an actual translation of an idea of a thought from one language to another.

This has been true. All of you who know more than one language know this. Those of you who know only one language are not aware of it. This is why the adepts of the Western Mystery Training School certainly took care that these problems that have to do with language would not become a part of our of an interference with our spiritual training in order to evolve our consciousness to expand our consciousness into oneness with the infinite to whatever degree we are capable of doing this at whatever stage of our evolution we happen to be in at the time and this is why the the adepts and the masters of wisdom have been very careful to give us the principles of consciousness, to, in other words, use the language that is basic and natural to subconsciousness, because subconsciousness has only one language, the language of pictorial imagery.

And no matter how much you may talk to your subconsciousness, no matter how many affirmations you may make to your subconsciousness which is mine it belongs to all of us remember we just each have our little garden that we uh hoe and weed and I wonder how many weeds we manage to get out sometimes but even a few that is better that's better than nothing isn't it? The point is that only when we can approach subconsciousness in its own language can we even remotely go about transmuting these deep rooted patterns which we carry with us as part of our genetic heritage, which we carry with us as part of the heritage of the unity of human consciousness in itself, which we carry with us as part of our reincarnational heritage, that is, the misinterpretations and ignorance, the foolishness of the infant that we've always been. Yesterday you were more of an infant than you are today.

And this is how it goes. There's a continuous growth process in the universe of which we are a part. So the importance of knowing the language that will affect our subconscious patterns cannot, I repeat, it cannot be exaggerated, no matter how strongly I put it. It's still weak. Because all of your evolution, all of it, is dependent on the ability and capacity to transmute the subconscious patterns, which are a combined group of patterns that is patterns remember are pictorial images and we respond to life continuously in terms of these images which we have received partially from our genetic stream partially from the fact that we are one with all of humanity partially that which makes us one with all living creatures including the animals and the creeping creeping and crawling creatures which are gloriously beautiful and alive partially that which we have managed to fashion for ourselves in other words our own little demons fashioned out of our own reincarnational history as we've been fashioning our own individuality fashioning our own individuality as aspects of the one life now then in genesis 3 we come to one of the most important parts well actually aren't they all important can you say that the first week of embryonic development is less important than the third month really so whenever we say this is one of the most important we're using words really really and words to make you stand up and become a little more attentive perhaps the point is it's all important we do have a certain record which is in a special language. In the Western mystery training system we have had this language at all times. It has never been lost, never. But as happens with all things, we develop this exoteric misinterpretation because of undeveloped minds and hearts, children or infants of life and so no matter what you study you have usually an esoteric and an exoteric aspect that is an inner which is for the few and an outer which the many pick up and become tied to you have for instance in the eastern tradition the esoteric teaching and then the exoteric religions which have developed therefrom and have made people incapable of handling their physical vehicles and their physical life as they should because of the extreme escapism into which they have withdrawn as a result of the misinterpretation of the true teachings of the esoteric part of the philosophy, the, shall we say, spiritual psychologies that are involved. This is true of all creatures, minds, that have not yet achieved the fullness of being. And even when we achieve that fullness perhaps we discover another fullness beyond that, but we don't have to worry about it at the moment. In Genesis 3 then, we have the language that gives us the the secret of the development of good and evil, and it has been mistranslated, misinterpreted, and misused to a degree that actually, I would say, has helped to keep a very large portion of humanity in a narrow, bigoted, and un-evolving states of being.

Not that we can really remain un-evolving but let's say that it seems to be a more slow evolution the more we're held in false patterns of thinking and feeling the slower can the expansion of consciousness take place and remember expansion of consciousness means expanding our own into the all consciousness or the creative principle of which we are inevitably a part or we couldn't be at all so in genesis 1 I pointed out by showing you the actual translation from the ancient hebrew I showed you that this creative aspect was the world where you still have the archetypal ideas in other words the divine mind is creating in the mind just as we create I'm going to do so so-and-so. It's in the mind. You make your decision. You plan it. But it still isn't something you're experiencing. It's being created in the mind, the musician who decides, I'm going to write a song and has the first idea or inspiration or exaltation of the music.

Then you have the next development. From that, you start forming your details. Well, what what kind of a song or what kind of a melody am I going to create or what kind of a house?

And so here you go into more of the patterns that have to do with eventual manifestation.

Remember, in the Western Mystery Training, in the Qabalah, you have your four worlds of manifestation which actually divide into the seven uh and harmonize with our eastern brethren quite completely because the lowest force which by lowest we do not mean unspiritual remember this remember this we don't want to admit you to think that here not very long anyway because the fourth plane actually is divided into four aspects so if you take the three above the three higher plane or shall we say the vibratory planes that have a more rapid vibratory motion. And then you take the fourth, which has four divisions, which in alchemy has been called fire, air, earth, and water.

These are all actually, remember, different vibratory parts of a manifesting principle.

You have then your seven planes correlating with the Eastern philosophies. But you have in the Western Mystery Training a much more practical system for developing control of your environment.

Remember, I know what it is to experience nirvana.

I know samadhi. I was born with it.

Remember, I have been able to have it at will through most, not all, remember, not all, through most of my life. There are times I have not been able to have it. There are times, at will. There are other times I have. The point is, I know this state of being.

I also know the difference by direct experience, difference between the state of consciousness, which we in Qabalah call the vital consciousness shared by all creatures with man, also called the universal animal soul, and by animal we're not calling anybody names we share it with all living things actually it is the garden of eden I am now going to give you a little more on the interpretation with the bible it is the vital animal soul aspect of life so called in the bible that is the garden of eden because what have we gotten with the creatures think for a moment a creature is innocent adam and Eve were innocent. You remember they were not ashamed. A creature is not ashamed. It's living in harmony with nature. It is in a state of evolution, and yet it is also in a state of involution, according to Qabalah. Not until the involving principle of deity has brought a portion of its consciousness into that complete concentration that we call human consciousness have we got what we might call a complete separation of that in us which is at one with the ecstasy of the garden of eden and that which gets itself thrown out or feels thrown out or loses it.

Now, how can I explain this to you to give you a better understanding of it?

Always, I like to go back to experiences we've had when we've been children.

Always, I like to ask you to remember how you thought or felt in the earliest years you can remember.

Some remember at age two, some at age three, some have blocked it out, which to me is sad but it can come back but if we are able to go back in our memory and relive in our imagination the attitudes and reactions we had as very small children and some of the things we did we will realize we did things that today we consider evil in a state of innocence and therefore they were not evil to our state of consciousness of then do you get that idea it's very important if we're going to go on to a clear understanding not that I'm going to give you a clear understanding of genesis 3 in one little talk on a sunday morning you realize this I mean this would take a thousand talks and very fascinating one so god knows how you would be able to take it because we get so disturbed with our own foolish misinterpretations and we get upset because of an idea being presented to us that isn't in harmony with something we have become fixated upon so that we can get ourselves into states of unhappiness that are utterly unnecessary but again this is part of what happens and is explained through this symbolic representation of the development of consciousness that we call the tree the knowledge of the tree of good and evil now then keeping in mind that in genesis 1 we had the first flash of inspiration in other words a portion of deities said to itself let us create and you know and remember I want you to keep in mind that us because the one absolute is behind all things and yet the development into the creative aspects of the universe deals with certain uh portions of individualized aspects aspects of deity are pretty much like in the Eastern philosophies. You have divine names, you have Shiva for the feminine principle, you have the Brahma for a portion of the masculine principle. You have many different names which are meant to denote different aspects or expressions of deity. And in Qabalah, of course, this was developed to the most complete degree.

The whole mantra power, the vibratory power of the chant that we do here in our work on Sundays and during class. Although sometimes we talk so long we skip the mantra, but then if we do, we still have it regularly, we don't have to worry about that too much. It may be that I will want us to skip the mantra this morning because I will be so eager.

That is, skip part of the mantra this morning because I will be so eager to give you a better understanding of Genesis 3, which is such a deep and profound principle involving everything that has to do with human consciousness.

Consider then that in Genesis 1 and 2 we have a gradual development from one plane to the next. The first is an inspiration I'm going to write a song or a piece or I'm going to create a universe and I'm going to place such things in the universe as creatures, animals, etc. and then finally man in our image and likeness consider that then in Genesis 2 it seems as though it's being started all over again but it isn't this is taking place on the next plane of manifestation the next condensation of the substance of God that is bringing the formative more of the details and is starting the development remember Eve is supposedly taken out of the rib of Adam but remember that rib in itself is a symbolic expression and it is very much involved with what we're going to talk about now. I wish I had my cough medicine here. In the bottom of my drawer in my office there's a little bit of a cough medicine and if any of you say, gee, if she's in a debt why does she need cough medicine.

And you need to learn a great deal more about what is involved in adepthood and what is involved in control of the vehicle. Now, if I was a hatha yoga a type, I certainly could do something about my cough in an instant. But my consciousness is somewhere else and my vehicle being used in a different way and when we are expecting somebody to be a god and master of everything and sit on a platform teaching us we are very mistaken because those who've attained that state cannot even remotely remain within the vibrations of the physical incarnated human being it's impossible for them to do it and you have a graduating scale of shall we say awarenesses in the very bottom drawer on the right hand side of my desk a little bottle with a clear liquid with. Now then, in Genesis 3, what we have then is a development of the actual manifestation into a form recognizable by us. The pair of opposites. I'd like to have the tree of life brought up for a moment felix darling would you bring it up just I think it just lifts right up from the back of the wall because I want you to go home with one very clear idea on genesis 3 today I think that it's going to help you get rid of many of your guilt complexes maybe not overnight because nothing happens overnight but it's going to plant the seed for you It's the wrong one.

I'll try it again. What's the name of it?

It's a bottle about so high. There are several in there. And it's a clear liquid and it says...

I'll look for it. It's worse than your purse.

My purse is naturally... My drawers are always worse than my purse.

Now usually we stick it right on that we usually just stick it where on the color cards now I want you to look at that tree because this is now you're going to understand the genesis three really understand it uh at least a portion that we must understand remember That's what I wanted, thank you.

Just lean it up. The What I Want to show will be able to be seen readily enough.

Look at all these bottles. They look like a hypochondria.

That'll be good discipline for you.

Ah.

That's good. Put a light on it, honey, would you?

Slant it slightly to me, very slightly.

No, not too much, because I want everyone there to see it. Can everybody see it? Yes. I want that whole... All right. Now, as you all know, or at least those of you who've been coming here know, This is a representation, actually, of the entire creation, both on the universal cosmic, macrocosmic scale, as well as on the microcosmic or detailed or individualized scale. This is both us in miniature, which is like the drop being reflected from the universe. Now the serpent remember every single Hebrew letter has a character name it is not like any other language except Greek which also used this method to train subconsciousness into a pattern that it would receive in order to train it out of patterns that have been part of the ignorance of our own evolution Bear in mind, then, that every single Hebrew letter, the 22 Hebrew letters, have a character name after each one.

Now, there is one Hebrew letter, the character name of which is Serpent.

Serpent. That is taste. Would somebody like to get up on a stage to show whatever it is I point to? Now the one that is taste or serpent is the cross path being shown you between the red and the blue Sephiroth remember those 10 Sephiroth are the 10 holy emanations of god or the 10 aspects of consciousness now that path that path of taste is also represented remember in tarot by a red lion which is the animal nature the animal consciousness being conditioned trained with love the red roses or the wreath by a woman remember a woman who represents the aspect the various aspects of eve or mother or uh the divine cosmic mother we call elohim when we chant this vibratory power to awaken that influence in us but it is that same influence going down the line of manifestation remember that we finally call Eve in other words Eve which is one of the names of the bottom the very bottom know the very bottom democritus that Eve or in Hebrew it is called Hava which is the the original way it was utilized, is one of the several names for what?

The manifested universe. Remember, the manifested universe is the result of everything that has gone above. In other words, it is the dress, it is the skin. Remember in Genesis 3, and Lord God, and I'll be explaining that to you in a moment, then we'll get into the real stuff that'll upset you and the lord god dressed adam and eve in skin or if you want the exact huh in coats of skin in coats of skin now you don't imagine do you that the lord god went out and slaughtered some poor little creatures and tore their fur off of them and put it on them? Or have you been that naive?

Can't you see the symbolic language involved? We are clothed in coats of skin. Remember how often I said to you we carry our ocean inside of our skins?

We are clothed in coats of skin. Is it not our coats of skin that separate us one from the other, really?

Here we carry the same chemistry inside of ourselves, but our coats of skin separate us one from the other and so this whole separation has to do with the coat of skin but then one says why should lord god do such a terrible thing ah say the men because eve you watch out for these women watch out for us we're dangerous I hope we want to lure and seduce you to God but actually you see again you've had a complete misinterpretation utter and tragic because of human beings who are undeveloped and unevolved giving you a literal translation of a principle that is glorious, holy and really ecstatic now Eve was tempted it says by the serpent you know the serpent said to Eve well you know God said to you don't eat of this fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you don't listen to God you know if you eat I from that boy you're gonna know a lot of of wonderful things.

And so it sounds as though there is something that's smarter than God, subtler than God, more powerful than God, doesn't it? That it can go ahead and here God creates a universe, God creates an Adam and Eve, and then something doesn't listen to God.

But actually remember, there's something in the previous chapter, they were naked and they were not ashamed, Do you remember that? They were naked and they were not ashamed.

And then again, and that they were flesh of flesh and blood of blood, bone of bone, one of the other. In other words, there was still a complete consciousness, an ecstasy of unity. There was no separation yet. This was just one of the stages that takes place. And remember, those of you who come to various classes know, Well, the thing that hit me beyond all else in my experience of these different kinds of consciousness, remember, I know what it is like to be a tree.

I mean, we all do, really. It's just that I've been able to re-remember and re-experience it in this incarnation, and you still will. I know what it is like to experience tree consciousness, plant consciousness. I know what the thing I like to call cosmic animal consciousness is like. And let me tell you, it is an ecstasy beyond description. So what do you want to do? Become an animal?

A lot of people misinterpret this for samadhi or nirvana, because it is ecstasy. And let me tell you, an animal has no responsibility. So what do you want to do? Become an animal again and be in ecstasy and have no responsibility?

This is the Garden of Eden, because you have not yet eaten of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. You're still wild free, ecstatic this is what is said it's actually said in the actual script those who have read it in its language and have had the training that I have had the privilege to have and several here have reached that point who also know this now more than you think now then the garden of Eden I pointed out to you has to do it is called really in its ancient language the garden of delight and let me tell you it is most delightful to be in an ecstasy as I said it's much cheaper than dope and alcohol and many a mystic has escaped into it and actually is going to have to pay a heavy price in future incarnations because we cannot escape into the mystical ecstasies of samadhi and nirvana and just remain there even though we think we can when we experience it. We cannot because we have to bring the above into the below. The experience of the physical universe is here because this has been the intention. In other words, when the tree of the knowledge of good and evil as reported here in the expression given in the symbolic language of the Old Testament.

When the tree of the knowledge of good and evil was planted, why should it be planted? I ask you, unless God intended, or the universal spirit intended, that we be tempted enough to eat.

All right, so if you boys want to say, why did you girls listen to the serpent?

I want to tell you something. The serpent that cross paths, that has this tarot symbolism, which we haven't got up there at the moment, but those of you who are taking the lessons know that glorious red lion being tamed with love by this lovely woman, that is the feminine principle of God, with the figure eight above the head showing the eternal self-conscious mastery being evolved and part of it. This particular symbol is also called in Qabalah you know every single Hebrew letter is a type of consciousness a form of consciousness which we represent through the tarot keys to train your subconsciousness into giving up its nonsense and to know how to live in joy and glory and beauty and control well the intelligence of the secret of all spiritual activities that's one of the longest we have of an all 22 I always thought it was a tongue twister but then after a while I realized why it should be now then this hebrew letter is called the serpent the tarot symbolism is a beautiful tarot key I wish you had we had it up here to show you at the moment if somebody wants to sort of sneak out and get it in while we're talking so you could take a look at it in its full beauty it'll give you another idea and an impact number eight called strength strength is another interesting thing there now and then every single one of these emanations of deity which are symbolically represented here and every single one of these paths or connections which we represent through the Hebrew letters and tarot keys for a training to get you away from the old language and nonsense and ignorance having their type of consciousness and power remember the intelligence of the secret of all spiritual activities is called the serpent and you know what the serpent is the kundalini power and what is the kundalini power it is the sex energy all right that's where now we're ready to scare you see so that in essence this chapter is saying what it is saying that the creative principle of the universe is what on the physical plane we call the sex drive which is the reproductive energy in itself which is the secret of all spiritual activities now mind you what it says in qabalah the secret of all spiritual activities and you have there's the tarot key that is such a delightful representation of doing what?

Of gaining strength. Strength.

Gaining control of that part of us. Now remember, when we are Adam, and remember Adam means generic humanity. It doesn't mean a man. It means mankind, generic humanity. When we are Adam in the Garden of Eden, we are still in our animal consciousness in as much as we are still in a state of ecstasy of a knowledge of our unity but we have no self-consciousness we have not yet become separated away so we are in the state of becoming something else but we're still in harmony with the whole garden even though we have control remember uh what I talked to you about last week uh lord god told adam to name the creatures and naming means giving them their nature basically so that we actually we are the creators of the nature of life as a matter of fact the nature of creatures in all ways because we have gone through every state just look at any embryo in a mother's womb and you tell me that we haven't gone through every state controlling learning how to control matter from state to state developing more and more complex bodies for ourselves until we finally have a body that we call the human body and every body that every every kind of body that exists.

It is the deity that has done it, certainly, but you, after all, are an aspect of that deity. You have done it. I have done it. We've all done it. And we are all part of this creating, evolving principle. But then, the knowledge of good and evil, remember what I've told you about the two pillars on the right hand of the tree of life, that whole line. No, give the right hand as they're looking at it, darling.

The gray, the blue, and the green, sefiroth, or emanations of deity, that is called a line or a pillar, called the pillar of mercy. That opposite side, as you face it, the left-hand side, is called the pillar of severity. It's also, the right-hand side is called the masculine pillar. The left-hand side is called the feminine pillar. Now, it is in the interplay, notice that yellow, the serpent, connects. It is the middle connecting point of everything. Please notice this. It connects.

It is the central of the three connections between the masculine and the feminine. On the top part, we have Yod-Heh-Vo-Heh, mistranslated Jehovah, Elohim in eternal union, who say, let us create. That is symbolically shown by the above. And there's your connection on that first cross path.

This next one, that middle one, we actually have the one taste, the serpent. That's where creation has gotten into the formative state where actually the division in the consciousness of deity has taken place of seeing itself as masculine and feminine, force and form, and the secret of all spiritual activities then will have to do with having a division take place to the degree that we will be driven to seek unity forevermore do you start seeing the secret of sex as the secret of all spiritual activity everything is driven to have unity and of course on the lower levels they defile and degrade the spiritual activities. It's wasted away.

And the repercussions come, unhappiness, guilt. Because remember, Adam and Eve became ashamed once they were beguiled. But what beguiled them? Was it a serpent or was it a snake? Some of you are afraid of it and think they're ugly. I think they're beautiful myself.

If we look with the eyes of God, all things are beautiful indeed once we've realized the purposes all right what beguiled the spiritual of all secret activities the serpent that means the kundalini energy or the driving spirit of creation which is the driving need to have union with the beloved with the two halves of the Eternal One. This is what beguiled. And when it says that Eve listened to it, remember Eve means the manifested principle, the queen. It is not, as people have thought, the actual feminine part of God, because bear in mind that Adam means generic humanity, and it's even mentioned in the Bible, male and female created they-them. That is, Yod-Heh-Voh-Heh Elohim, which means father, mother in union together, cosmic father, mother in union, created they, them. You know, male and female created they-them. That's Adam. And so Eve really doesn't mean what we have thought. It actually means a physical plane and it's gotten itself misinterpreted again the subconscious part of the mind has been involved here and the subconscious part of the mind is also involved in the whole idea of what is tempted because that cross path that we're talking about the secret of all spiritual activities it's humanized subconsciousness the woman that you see there she represents the divine feminine principle of god she also represents the humanized subconsciousness you're looking at the tarot key number eight straight she's humanized subconsciousness able to control the driving compulsive reproductive animal energy and of course it is known that man that is souls in a masculine vehicle certainly are more compulsive sexually than souls in a feminine vehicle as such this is generally understood by our psychologists even though you do have exceptions naturally but on the whole this is so. The point is that the lure, the allurement, or the seducing that is said to have taken place by the serpent actually has to do with the beguiling of the reproductive energy, the kundalini energy, which it has to beguile in order to get stirred into activity, in order to to finally bring about cosmic consciousness.

Because the Eastern brethren, along with the Western mystery schools, are certainly in agreement. The energy rises up the spine from its coiled-up serpent power at the base of the spine, which is not the physical part of the body at all. It is the part of the body actually alluded to here. It is the etheric astral part of the body that holds this very condensed concentrated energy and it expresses in and through us in these various drives and a lot for you if you haven't got them because if you haven't got them how are you going to get strong strength in other words if you're not tempted how are you going to develop individuality if you have nothing to fight against if there's nothing to seduce in order to to make you aware, how are you going to be conscious?

Therefore, it says, now man is like us. Now man is like the gods. Remember that? Now, hasn't that sounded kind of crazy and stupid to you before? I hope that you were able to see, that you were trying to think and analyze in the past, and that you were able to see that this story made absolutely no sense.

In the literal interpretation. And yet when you know the language, and all of you who take the lessons are taught this language, because this is the language that brings you your illumination and freedom from the slavery you've been in, the begamen, from the dust, from having to crawl on your bellies, so to speak. Because we are the serpents that have been crawling on our bellies and eating the dust. We are the ones who who have been sung on our heels.

Nothing different. In other words, our energy.

And yet, one could say, well, if God is perfect to begin with, as one of my dearly beloveds has said so often, why couldn't God, after all, the drawing board is empty, why can't you just draw it all out perfectly to begin with so you haven't got all these hells and problems and aches and pains and guilt? Because remember the develop the good and evil is the beginning of guilt isn't it unless you know good and evil you're not guilty no animal is guilty when it expresses its urge for reproduction it is beautiful and it is innocent it is not ashamed no creature it feels guilt that expressing its divine urges there's only one type of creature that feels guilt and that is the creature that has eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in other words it is Eva it is that part of deity which has evolved to a point where its own curiosity you know if you're not curious you're not intelligent you realize that don't you when you say stop being curious about something you're telling somebody to remain ignorant and dumb.

It's better to be a nosy body and suffer the repercussions of people getting annoyed with you than to be uninterested in other people's thoughts and hopes and despairs and desires.

Curiosity is the only thing that brings knowledge. If you're not curious, you're not going to go out and find out.

Therefore, the eating of this fruit of the knowledge of good and evil is really the evolution into the point where we're beguiled into wanting to know the pair of opposites. It's an evolutionary point that we have reached, therefore.

And the moment we get to that point where we are beguiled into wanting to know the pair of opposites, that is where we have self-consciousness started, right then and there. Without eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, therefore, could you know the difference between day and night? I ask you. Could you know the difference between one color and another? Think. Could you know the difference between love and hate?

Meditate on that. Could you know the difference between one form and another? You would be an all-inclusive, ecstatic everything and therefore nothing.

You would not be a unique individualized way. How could you be if you couldn't see the differences? It is in the differences, it is in the very thing that separates us from the Universal Spirit, that throws us out of the Garden of Eden. It is in that very thing that we become as the gods.

Therefore the next question is is it worth it is it worth it would you rather be an on self-conscious total ecstasy of course you really can't anymore you've been and you're returning to it, but you're returning to it in another way. Remember, an unconscious total ecstasy is, I've known it more than I'd like to tell you, but isn't it lucky I'm not a dope addict on the spiritual plane, because I never wanted to stay there. And do you know why I never wanted to stay there because in that consciousness which I've been able to go to and I receive nourishment in that consciousness I do not know that there is an end I do not know there is a friend in that consciousness I do not know that there is a Felix and the Harriet that there is a tree and a flower. I do not know any of those things. I do not know that there is anything to know. In that consciousness I know that I am I, beginningless, endless, never born, never die, there's no knowledge of birth or death. Infinite, beginningless, endless, rapture, ecstasy, and love. This I know in that consciousness. That's all there is.

That's all there is but you know what when I snap back into I am with my aches and pains and cough I am I become an am who sees one color from another there's a differentiation I am self consciousness I can look at a cloud and know it as against the sky. I can look at a star. I can see one color virgating into another. I can feel I am love, Fran, Felix, Harriet, every single one of you. And each loving I do is not the same loving. It's different because it's another set of relationships. This is the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Now I, Anne, have been able to, and God help me, probably still can hate. You have one, you have the other, right? A pair of opposites. Any time we want everything to be all over on one side, we can't do it. We lose consciousness. I can be be infinite everythingness, and in that I am all love. And when I sit here, I very much bring that all love, and I stir you with it in every way I can. But the reason I can do it is because I am not willing to leave you. Why should I go into unconscious everything everything I love, eternalness.

It isn't unconsciousness. It is an all-consciousness. But it doesn't contain the miracle of you.

And I say it is worth every pain. I say it is worth every evil because how can you have good unless you've had evil? How can you know the difference?

How can you know one thing except as against another? And this is the evolution of self-consciousness. And this is being as the gods we are higher than the angels even though we're still embryos learning how to control as that number eight the secret of all spiritual activities and that lure and that beguilement you boys if you say the women are the cause of it for God's sake stop start loving us more you should be grateful to us for giving you such terrific intellect let's then how could you had it otherwise if you want to interpret it on that level and because the time is late we will now finish with just the closing healing meditation we cannot not have our haven't got time for our uh qabalistic chant but I think we've been sending a healing into the hearts and minds of all who belong to us and who we belong to with new thoughts and ideas this we have and we heal in many ways don't we of metaphysical import, mistranslated, misrepresented, misunderstood, and having caused a host of problems, including atheism.

Certainly, that's part of what made me an atheist for the few years that I enjoyed it. Incidentally, it was very enjoyable being an atheist. You know, one felt sort of cocky about it. It's an account of the youth also remember but after a while when intelligence comes naturally we realize that this is a very foolish thing to be still we go through stages where we need to throw away all the nonsense all the nonsensical interpretations which have been given us the brainwashing that have become part of our emotional reactions and so even atheism can be constructive, provided we don't get lost in it and stay in it beyond a very limited period, just enough to cleanse ourselves from the teaching and training of ignorant minds, which have made it impossible for us to continue on in our evolutionary necessity. All right, then. Bear in mind that I pointed out to you that in Genesis number one, we have what is called creation and it's definitely called creation and that in as much as the actual mystical aspects that is the Qabalistic aspects of the Bible were written by those who were trained in the secret wisdom of Israel that only when one knows this language does one know what was actually said and those of you who know more than one language will understand very well, very well indeed, as I was discussing with our beloved Anne Ryan yesterday, because she, as you know, is so well trained in the psychiatric field, she thinks this frightens you, if you know about it, but I don't think it does.

I think all you have to do is look at her and see that she's so lovable at the fact that she's a trained psychiatric social worker. It just makes her that much more lovable because she has the spiritual training along with the scientific knowledge.

And I was discussing with her yesterday as we were going over certain requirements for the work, this very idea that we're mentioning now, how difficult it is to understand what another person means.

Our semantic problems.

We say something to another individual and the other individual will often say, oh, I understand, and yet they can be at opposite ends of the pole. They never understood at all.

Also then, think. You have certain subtleties of ideas, you have subtleties of emotion, and some of them are not subtle at all, that go with expression from language to language.

And everyone who speaks one language goes into a state of frustration in attempting to give an actual translation of an idea of a thought from one language to another.

This has been true. All of you who know more than one language know this. Those of you who know only one language are not aware of it. This is why the adepts of the Western Mystery Training School certainly took care that these problems that has to do with language would not become a part of our of an interference with our spiritual training in order to evolve our consciousness to expand our consciousness into oneness with the infinite to whatever degree we are capable of doing this at whatever stage of our evolution we happen to be in at at the time. And this is why the adepts and the masters of wisdom have been very careful to give us the principles of consciousness, to, in other words, use the language that is basic and natural to subconsciousness, because subconsciousness has only one language, the language of pictorial imagery. And no matter how much you may talk to your subconsciousness, no matter how many affirmations you may make to your subconsciousness which is mine it belongs to all of us remember we just each have our little garden that we uh hoe and weed and I wonder how many weeds we manage to get out sometimes but even a few better that's better than nothing isn't it The point is that only when we can approach subconsciousness in its own language can we even remotely go about transmuting these deep-rooted patterns, patterns which we carry with us as part of our genetic heritage which we carry with us as part of the heritage of the unity of human consciousness in itself which we carry with us as part of our reincarnational heritage that is the misinterpretations and ignorance the foolishness of the infant that we've always been yesterday you were more of an infant than you are today day. And this is how it goes. There's a continuous growth process in the universe of which we are a part. So the importance of knowing the language that will affect our subconscious patterns cannot, I repeat, it cannot be exaggerated, no matter how strongly I put it. It's still weak.

Because all of your evolution all of it is dependent on the ability and capacity to transmute the subconscious patterns which are a combined group of patterns that is patterns remember are pictorial images and we respond to life continuously in terms of these images which we have received partially from our genetic stream partially from the fact that we are one with all of humanity partially that which makes us one with all living creatures including the animals and the creeping and crawling creatures which are gloriously beautiful and alive partially that which we have managed to fashion for ourselves in other words our own little demons and fashioned out of our own reincarnational history as we've been fashioning our own individuality, fashioning our own individuality as aspects of the one life. Now then, in Genesis 3, we come to one of the most important parts. Well, actually, aren't they all important? Can you say that the first week of embryonic development is less important than the third month?

Really.

So whenever we say this is one of the most important, we're using words, really, and words to make you stand up and become a little more attentive, perhaps.

The point is, it's all important.

We do have a certain record, which is in a special language. In the Western mystery training system, we have had this language at all times. It has never been lost. Never. But as happens with all things we develop this exoteric misinterpretation because of undeveloped minds and hearts children or infants of life and so no matter what you study you have usually an esoteric and an exoteric aspect that is an inner which is for the few and an outer which the many pick up and become tied to you have for instance in the Eastern tradition the esoteric teaching and then the exoteric religions which have developed there from and have made people incapable of handling their physical vehicles and their physical life as they should because of the extreme escapism into which they have withdrawn as a result of the misinterpretation of the true teachings of the esoteric part of the philosophy, the, shall we say, spiritual psychology that are involved.

This is true of all creatures, minds, that have not yet achieved the fullness of being. And even when we achieve that fullness, perhaps we discover another fullness beyond that. But we don't have to worry about it at the moment. In Genesis 3 then we have the language that gives us the secret of the development of good and evil and it has been mistranslated misinterpreted and misused to a degree that actually I would say has helped to keep a very large portion of humanity in a narrow bigoted and unevolving states of being, not that we can really remain unevolving, but let's say that it seems to be a more slow evolution.

The more we're held in false patterns of thinking and feeling, the slower can the expansion of consciousness take place.

And remember, expansion of consciousness means expanding our own into. The all-consciousness, or the creative principle, of which we are inevitably a part, or we couldn't be at all.

So in Genesis 1, I pointed out, by showing you the actual translation from the ancient Hebrew, I showed you that this creative aspect was the world where you still have the archetypal ideas. Is in other words the divine mind is creating in the mind just as we create I'm going to do so and so it's in the mind you make your decision you plan it but it still isn't something you're experiencing it's being created in the mind the musician who decides I'm going to write a song and has the and has the first idea or inspiration or exaltation of the music then you have the next development from that you start forming your details well what kind of a song or what kind of a melody am I going to create or what kind of a house and so here you go into more of the patterns that have to do with eventual manifestations remember in the Western mystery training in the Qabalah you the seven uh and harmonize with our eastern brethren quite completely because the lowest or which by lowest we do not mean unspiritual remember this remember this we don't want to admit you to think that here not very long anyway because the fourth plane actually is divided into four aspects so if you take the three above the three higher planes or shall we say the vibratory planes that have a more rapid vibratory motion.

And then you take the fourth, which has four divisions, which in alchemy has been called fire, air, earth, and water.

These are all actually, remember, different vibratory parts of a manifesting principle.

You have then your seven planes correlating with the Eastern philosophies. But you have in the Western Mystery Training a much more practical system for developing control of your environment.

Remember, I know what it is to experience nirvana.

I know samadhi. I was born with it.

Remember, I have been able to have it at will through most, not all, remember not all, through most of my life. There are times I have not been able to have it. There are times at will. There are other times I have. The point is, I know this state of being.

I also know the difference by direct experience, difference between the state of consciousness which we in Qabalah call the vital consciousness shared by all creatures with man, also called the universal animal soul and by animal we're not calling anybody names we share it with all living things actually it is the garden of eden I am now going to give you a little more on the interpretation with the bible it is the vital animal soul aspect of life so called in the bible that is the garden of eden because what have we gotten with the creatures Think for a moment. A creature is innocent.

Adam and Eve were innocent. You remember they were not ashamed.

A creature is not ashamed. It's living in harmony with nature. It is in a state of evolution, and yet it is also in a state of involution, according to Qabalah. Not until the involving principle of deity has brought a portion of its consciousness into that complete concentration that we call human consciousness have we got what we might call a complete separation of that in us which is at one with the ecstasy of the Garden of Eden and that which gets itself thrown out or feels thrown out or loses it. Now, how can I explain this to you to give you a better understanding of it?

Always, I like to go back to experiences we've had when we've been sheltered.

Always I like to ask you to remember how you thought or felt in the earliest years you can remember some remember at age two some at age three some have blocked it out which to me is sad but it can come back but if we are able to go back in our memory and relive in our imagination the attitudes and reactions we had as very small children and some of the things we did we will realize we did things that today we consider evil in a state of innocence and and therefore they were not evil to our state of consciousness of then.

Do you get that idea? It's very important if we're going to go on to a clear understanding, not that I'm going to give you a clear understanding of Genesis 3 in one little talk on a Sunday morning. You realize this. I mean, this would take a thousand talks, and very fascinating ones. So God knows how you would be able to take it.

Because we get so disturbed with our own foolish misinterpretations, and we get upset because of an idea being presented to us that isn't in harmony with something we have become fixated upon, so that we can get ourselves into states of unhappiness that are utterly unnecessary. Necessary but again this is part of what happens and is explained through this symbolic representation of the development of consciousness that we call the tree the knowledge of the tree of good and evil now then keeping in mind that in genesis 1 we had the first flash of inspiration In other words, a portion of deities said to itself, let us create, and remember, I want you to keep in mind that us, because the one absolute is behind all things, and yet the development into the creative aspects of the universe deals with certain portions of individualized aspects of deity are pretty much like in the Eastern philosophies. You have divine names.

You have Shiva for the feminine principle. You have the Brahma for a portion of the masculine principle. You have many different names which are meant to denote different aspects or expressions of deity.

And in Qabalah, of course, this was developed to the most complete degree. The whole mantra power, the vibratory power of the chant that we do here in our work on Sundays and during class, although sometimes we talk so long we skip the mantra, but then if we do, we still have it regularly, we don't have to worry about that too much. It may be that I will want us to skip the mantra this morning because I will be so eager, eager, that is, skip part of the mantra this morning, because I will be so eager to give you a better understanding of Genesis 3, which is such a deep and profound principle involving everything that has to do with human consciousness.

Consider then that in Genesis 1 and 2 we have a gradual development from one plane to the next. The first is an inspiration. I'm going to write a song or a piece, or I'm going to create a universe, and I'm going going to place such things in the universe as creatures, animals, etc., and then finally man in our image and likeness. Consider that then in Genesis 2, it seems as though it's being started all over again, but it isn't. This is taking place on the next plane of manifestation, the next condensation of the substance of God that is bringing the formative, more of the details into starting the development. Remember, Eve is supposedly taken out of the rib of Adam.

But remember that rib in itself is a symbolic expression.

And it is very much involved with what we're going to talk about now.

I wish I had my cough medicine here. Do you want one of these?

In the bottom of my drawer in my office there's a little bit of a cough medicine and if any of you say gee if she's an adept why does she need cough medicine you need to learn a great deal more about what is involved in adepthood and what is involved in control of the vehicle. Now, if I was a hatha yoga type, I certainly could do something about my cough in an instant. But my consciousness is somewhere else and my vehicle is being used in a different way.

And when we are expecting somebody to be a god and master of everything and sit on a platform teaching us, we are very mistaken because those who've attained that state cannot even remotely remain within the vibrations of the physical incarnate and human being. It's impossible for them to do it. And you have a graduating scale of, shall we say, say, awarenesses, in the very bottom drawer on the right-hand side of my desk.

A little bottle with a clear liquid.

Now then in uh in genesis three what we have then is a development of the actual manifestation into a form recognizable by us the pair of opposites I'd like to have the tree of life brought up for a moment felix darling would you bring it up just I think it just lifts right up from the back of the wall because I want you to go home with one very clear idea on genesis 3 today I think that it's going to help you get rid of many of your guilt complexes May not overnight, because nothing happens overnight, but it's going to plant the seed for you.

It's the wrong one.

It's a bottle about so high and it's... There are several in there. And it's why it's clearly it's a clear liquid and it says...

My purse is naturally, my drawers are always worse than my purse.

Can all of you see the tree all right? No, usually we stick it right on that.

We usually just stick it where, on the color cards.

Now I want you to look at that tree because now you're going to understand the Genesis 3 really understand it at least a portion that we must understand remember that's what I wanted thank you I want to show we'll be able to be seen readily enough.

Well, look at all these bottles. They look like a hypochondria.

That'll be good discipline for you.

Ah.

That's good. Put a light on it, honey, would you?

Swant it slightly to me, very slightly.

No, not too much because I want everyone there to see it. Can everybody see it? Good. I want that whole...

All right. Now, as you all know, or at least those of you who've been coming here know, this is a representation, actually, of the entire creation, both on the universal cosmic, macrocosmic scale, as well as on the microcosmic or detailed or individualized scale. This is both us in miniature, which is like the drop being reflected from the universe. Now the serpent.

Remember, every single Hebrew letter has a character name. It is not like any other language except Greek, which also used this method to train subconsciousness into a pattern that it would receive in order to train it out of patterns that have been part of the ignorance of our own evolution. Bear in mind then that every single Hebrew letter, the 22 Hebrew letters, have a character name after each one.

Now there is one Hebrew letter, the character name of which is serpent.

That is taste. Would somebody like to get up on the stage to show whatever it is I point to? Now the one that is taste or serpent is the cross path being shown you between the red and the blue Sephiroth remember those 10 Sephiroth are the 10 holy emanations of god or the 10 aspects of consciousness now that path that path of taste is also represented remember in tarot by a red lion which is the animal nature, the animal consciousness, being condition-trained with love, the red roses or the wreath, by a woman. Remember, a woman who represents the aspect, the various aspects of Eve or mother or the divine cosmic mother we call Elohim when we chant this vibratory power to awaken that influence in us. But it is that same influence going down the line of manifestation remember that we finally call Eve in other words Eve which is one of the names of the bottom the very bottom know the very bottom the markus that Eve or in Hebrew it is called Hava which is the original way it was utilized is one of the several names for what the manifested universe remember the manifested universe is the result of everything that has gone above in other words it is the dress it is the skin remember in genesis 3 and lord god and I'll be explaining that to you in a moment then we'll get into the real stuff that'll upset you and the lord god dressed adam and eve in skin or if you want the exact huh in coats of skin in coats of skin now you don't imagine do you that the lord god went out and slaughtered some poor little creatures and tore their fur off of them and put it on them or have you been that naive Can't you see the symbolic language involved?

We are clothed in coats of skin. Remember how often I've said to you we carry our ocean inside of our skins?

We are clothed in coats of skin. Is it not our coats of skins that separate us one from the other, really? Here we carry the same chemistry inside of ourselves, but our coats of skin separate us one from the other. And so this whole separation has to do with the coat of skin but then one says why should Lord God do such a terrible thing ah say the men because Eve you watch out for these women watch out for us we're dangerous I hope we want to lure and seduce you to God but actually you see again you've had a complete misinterpretation utter and tragic because of human beings who are undeveloped and unevolved giving you a literal translation of a principle that is glorious, holy, and really ecstatic.

Now, Eve was tempted, it says, by the serpent. You know, the serpent said to Eve, well, you know, God said to you, don't eat of this fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.

You don't listen to God. You know, if you eat from that, boy you're going to know a lot of wonderful things and so it sounds as though there is something that's smarter than god subtler than god more powerful than god doesn't it that it can go ahead and uh here uh god uh creates a universe god creates an adam and eve and then something doesn't listen to god but actually remember this something in the previous chapter they were naked and they were not ashamed do you remember that they were naked and they were not ashamed and then again and that they were flesh of flesh and blood of blood bone bone one of the other in other words there was still a complete consciousness an ecstasy of unity there was no separation yet this was just one of the stages that takes place and remember those of you who come come to various classes know. The thing that hit me beyond all else in my experience of these different kinds of consciousness, remember, I know what it is like to be a tree. I mean, we all do, really. It's just that I've been able to re-remember and re-experience it in this incarnation, and you still will. I know what it is like to experience tree consciousness, consciousness, plant consciousness. I know what the thing I like to call cosmic animal consciousness is like. And let me tell you, it is an ecstasy beyond description. So what do you want to do? Become an animal? A lot of people misinterpret this for samadhi or nirvana because it is ecstasy. And let me tell you, an animal has no responsibility.

So what do you want to do? Become an animal again and be in ecstasy and have no responsibility? Ability, this is the Garden of Eden, because you have not yet eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. You're still wild, free, ecstatic. This is what is said. It's actually said in the actual script. Those who have read it in its language and have had the training that I have had the privilege to have, and several here have reached that point who also know this now more than you think.

Now then the garden of eden I've pointed out to you has to do it is called really in its ancient language the garden of delight and let me tell you it is most delightful to be in an ecstasy As I said, it's much cheaper than dope and alcohol.

And many a mystic has escaped into it and actually is going to have to pay a heavy price in future incarnations, because we cannot escape into the mystical ecstasies of samadhi and nirvana and just remain there, even though we think we can, when we experience it. We cannot, because we have to bring the above into the below. The experience of the physical universe is here because this has been the intention. In other words, when the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, as reported here in the expressions given in the symbolic language of the Old Testament, when the tree of the knowledge of good and evil was planted, why should it be planted? I ask you unless God intended or the Universal Spirit intended that we'd be tempted enough to eat all right so if you boys want to say why did you girls listen to the serpent I want to tell you something the serpent that crossed path that has this tarot symbolism which we haven't got up there at the moment but But those of you who are taking the lessons know that Gloria's red lion being tamed with love by this lovely woman, that is the feminine principle of God, with the figure eight above the head, showing the eternal self-conscious mastery being evolved and part of it.

This particular symbol is also called in Qabalah, you know, every single Hebrew letter is a type of consciousness. A form of consciousness, which we represent through the tarot keys, to train your subconsciousness into giving up its nonsense and to know how to live in joy and glory and beauty and control.

Well, the intelligence of the secret of all spiritual activities, that's one of the longest we have of all 22. I always thought it was a tongue twister, but then after a while I realized why it should be now then this hebrew letter is called the serpent the tarot symbolism is a beautiful tarot key I wish you had we had it up here to show you at the moment if somebody wants to sort of sneak out and get it in while we're talking so you could take a look at it in its full beauty it'll give you another idea and an impact number eight called strength Strength is another interesting thing there. And then, every single one of these emanations of deity, which are symbolically represented here, and every single one of these paths or connections, which we represent through the Hebrew letters and tarot keys, for a training to get you away from the old language and nonsense and ignorance, having their type of consciousness and power.

Remember, the intelligence of the secret of all spiritual activities is called the serpent. And you know what the serpent is, the kundalini power. And what is the kundalini power? It is the sex energy. All right, now we're ready to scare you, see?

So that, in essence, this chapter is saying what? It is saying that the creative principle of the universe is what on the physical plane we call the sex drive, which is the reproductive energy in itself, which is the secret of all spiritual activities. Now, mind you, what it says in Qabalah, the secret of all spiritual activities. And you have there's the tarot key that is such a delightful representation of doing what? Of gaining strength strength gaining control of that part of us now remember when we are Adam and remember Adam means generic humanity it doesn't mean a man it means mankind generic humanity when we are Adam in the Garden of Eden, we are still in our animal consciousness inasmuch as we are still in a state of ecstasy, of a knowledge of our unity, but we have no self-consciousness. We have not yet become separated away. So we are in the state of becoming something else, but we're still in harmony with the whole garden even though we have control.

Remember what I talked to you about last week. Our Lord God told Adam to name the creatures and naming means giving them their nature, basically, so that we actually, we are the creators of the nature of life, as a matter of fact, the nature of creatures in all ways, because we have gone through every state, just look at any embryo in a mother's womb and you tell me that we haven't gone through every state controlling learning how to control matter from state to state developing more and more complex bodies for ourselves until we finally have a body that we call the human body and everybody that every kind of body that exists. It is the deity that has done it, certainly, but you, after all, are an aspect of that deity. You have done it. I have done it. We've all done it. And we are all part of this creating, evolving principle. But then, the knowledge of good and evil.

Remember what I've told you about the two pillars on the right hand of the tree of life, that whole line. No, give the right hand as they're looking at it, darling. The gray the blue and the green sefiroth or emanations of deity that is called a line or a pillar called the pillar of mercy that opposite side as you face it the left hand side is called the pillar of severity it's also the right hand side is called the masculine pillar the left hand side is called the feminine pillar now it is in the interplay notice that yellow the serpent It is the middle connecting point of everything. Please notice this. It is the central of the three connections between the masculine and the feminine. On the top part, we have Yod-Heh-Vo-Heh, mistranslated Jehovah, and Elohim in eternal union, who say, let us create. That is symbolically shown by the above, and there's your connection on that first cross path.

This next one, that middle one, we actually have the one taste, the serpent. That's where creation has gotten into the formative state where actually the division in the consciousness of deity has taken place of seeing itself as masculine and feminine, force and form, and the secret of all spiritual activities then will have to do with having a division take place to the degree that we will be driven to seek unity forevermore. Do you start seeing the secret of sex is the secret of all spiritual activity. Everything is driven to have unity. And of course on the lower levels they defile and degrade the spiritual activity. It's wasted away and the repercussions come, unhappiness, guilt, because remember Adam and Eve became ashamed once they were beguiled but what beguiled them was it a serpent or was it a snake some of you are afraid of it and think they're ugly I think they're beautiful myself we look with the eyes of God all things are beautiful indeed once we've realized the purposes all right what beguiled the spiritual of all secret activities the serpent that means the kundalini energy or the driving spirit of creation which is the driving need to have union with the beloved with the two halves of the eternal one this is what beguiled and when it says that eve listened to it remember eve means the manifested principle the queen it is not as people have thought the actual feminine part of god because bear in mind that adam means generic humanity and it's even mentioned in the bible male and female created they them that is uh yod he vo he elohim which means father mother in union together, cosmic father-mother in union, created they, them. You know, male and female created they, them. That's Adam. And so Eve really doesn't mean what we have thought. It actually means the physical plane. And it's gotten itself misinterpreted. Again, the subconscious part of the mind has been involved here.

And the subconscious part of the mind is also involved in the whole idea of what is tempted because that cross path that we're talking about the secret of all spiritual activities it's humanized subconsciousness the woman that you see there she represents the divine feminine principle of God she also represents the humanized subconsciousness you're looking at the Tarot key number 8 straight She's humanized subconsciousness, able to control the driving, compulsive, reproductive animal energy.

And of course it is known that man, that is, souls in a masculine vehicle, certainly are more compulsive sexually than souls in a feminine vehicle as such.

This is generally understood by our psychologists, even though you do have exceptions, naturally.

But on the whole, this is so. The point is that the allurement or the seducing that is said to who've taken place by the serpent actually has to do with the beguiling of the reproductive energy, the kundalini energy, which it has to beguile in order to get stirred into activity, in order to finally bring about cosmic consciousness. Because the eastern brethren, along with the western mystery schools, are certainly in agreement. The energy rises up the spine from its coiled up serpent power at the base of the spine which is not the physical part of the body at all it is the part of the body actually alluded to here it is the etheric astral part of the of the body that holds this very condensed concentrated energy and it expresses in and through us in these various drives and a lot for you if you haven't got them because if If you haven't got them, how are you going to get strong, strength?

In other words, if you're not tempted, how are you going to develop individuality? If you have nothing to fight against, if there's nothing to seduce in order to make you aware, how are you going to be conscious?

Therefore, it says, now man is like us. Now man is like the gods. Remember that? Now, hasn't that sounded kind of crazy and stupid to you before? I hope that you were able to see, that you were trying to think and analyze in the past, and that you were able to see that this story made absolutely no sense in the literal interpretation. And yet, when you know the language, and all of you who take the lessons are taught this language, because this is the language that brings you your illumination and freedom from the slavery you've been in, the begalment, from the dust, from having to crawl on your bellies, so to speak. Because we are the serpents that have been crawling on our bellies and eating the dust. We are the ones who have been stung on our heels, nothing different. In other words, our energy. And yet one could say, well, if God is perfect to begin with as one of my dearly beloveds has said so often why couldn't God after all the drawing board is empty why can't you just draw it all up perfectly to begin with so you haven't got all these hells and problems and aches and pains and guilt because remember the develop the good and evil is the beginning of guilt isn't it unless you know good and evil you're not guilty No animal is guilty when it expresses its urge for reproduction.

It is beautiful and it is innocent. It is not ashamed.

No creature feels guilt at expressing its divine urges. There's only one type of creature that feels guilt, and that is the creature that has eaten of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. In other words it is that part of deity which has evolved to a point where its own curiosity you know if you're not curious you're not intelligent you realize that don't you when you say stop being curious about something you're telling somebody to remain ignorant and dumb it's better to be a nosy body and suffer the repercussions of people getting annoyed with you than to be uninterested in other people's thoughts and hopes and despairs and desires curiosity is the only thing that brings knowledge if you're not curious you're not going to go out and find out therefore the eating of this fruit of the knowledge of good and evil is really the evolution into the point where we're beguiled into wanting to know the pair of opposites it's an an evolutionary point that we have reached, therefore.

And the moment we get to that point where we are beguiled into wanting to know the pair of opposites, that is where we have self-consciousness started, right then and there. Without eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, therefore, could you know the difference between day and night? I ask you. Could you know the difference between one color and another?

Think. Could you know the difference between love and hate? Meditate on that. Could you know the difference between one form and another? You would be an all-inclusive, ecstatic everything and therefore nothing. You would not be a unique, individualized way. How could you be if you couldn't see the differences? It is in the differences, it is in the very thing that separates us from the universal spirit, that throws us out of the Garden of Eden. It is in that very thing that we become as the gods. Therefore, the next question is, is it worth it?

Is it worth it?

Would you rather be an un self-conscious total ecstasy of course you really can't anymore you've been and you're returning to it but you're returning to it in another way remember an unconscious total ecstasy is I've known it more than I'd like to tell you but isn't it lucky I'm not a dope addict on the spiritual plane because I never wanted to stay there and do you know why?

I never wanted to stay there because in that consciousness which I've been able to go to and I receive nourishment in that consciousness I do not know that there is an Anne I do not know there is a Fran in that consciousness I do not know that there is a Felix and a Harriet that there is a tree and a flower I do not know any of those things I do not know that there is anything to know in that consciousness I know that I am I beginningless, endless never born, never die there's no knowledge of birth or death infinite infinite, beginningless, endless rapture, ecstasy, and love. This I know in my consciousness. And that's all there is.

That's all there is. But you know what?

When I snap back into I am, with my aches and pains and coughs, I am, I become an am who sees one color from another. There's a differentiation. I am self-consciousness. I can look at a cloud and know it as against the sky. I can look at a star. I can see one color variating into another. I can feel I am love Fran Felix Harriet every single one of you and each loving I do is not the same loving it's different because it's another set of relationship this is the tree of the knowledge of good and evil now I am have been able to and God help me probably still can hate you have one you have the other right pair of opposites anytime we want everything to be all over on one side we can't do it we lose consciousness I can be infinite everything in this and in that I am all love and when I sit here I very much bring that all love and I stir you with it in every way I can but the reason I can do it is because I am not willing to leave you why should I go into unconscious everything I love uh eternalness it isn't unconsciousness it is an old consciousness but it doesn't contain the miracle of you and I say it is worth every pain I say it is worth every evil because how can you have good unless you've had evil? How can you know the difference?

How can you know one thing except as against another? And this is the evolution of self-consciousness. And this is being as the gods. We are higher than the angels even though we're still embryos, learning how to control, as that number eight, the secret of all spiritual activities. And that lure and that beguilement you boys if you say the women are the cause of it for god's sake stop start loving us more you should be grateful to us for giving you such terrific intellects then how could you have had it otherwise if you want to interpret it on that level and because the time is late we will now finish with just a closing healing meditation we cannot have our haven't got time for our Qabalistic chant but I think we've been sending a healing into the hearts and minds of all who belong to us and who we belong to with new thoughts and ideas.

This we have.

And we heal in many ways, don't we?
