I will now read from the Gospel of St. John, Chapter 15.

I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit for without me ye can do nothing if a man abide not in me he is cast forth as a branch and is withered and men gather them and cast them into the fire and they are burned if he abide in me and my words abide in you ye shall ask what ye will and it shall be done unto you. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so that ye may be my disciples. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you.

Continue ye in my love. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love, even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love these things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you and that your joy might be full this is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth. But I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit and that your fruit should remain that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name he may give it to you these things I command you that ye love one another Our title for today is Love, the Great Catalyst.

Now, we are going to speak of love in perhaps a way that you're not usually accustomed to, because, you see, one of the most misunderstood words, unfortunately enough, in our English vocabulary is this word love.

And one of the most misunderstood emotions is the emotion we call love.

And indeed, until we know a little more of what it is and know what to do to embrace it, we have little hope, truly, of attaining to the fulfillment fulfillment in relationships here or in the attainment of that glorious, unspeakable, incommunicable experience, the true knowledge, direct knowledge of the love of God and what it really means. And one, incidentally, cannot be had without the other, not really. The the Gospel of St. John, Chapter 15, from which we read. This is a pure Qabalistic treatise. And indeed, we couldn't even begin in a short talk like this to give the full implications of what has been said. But we are going to try at least to give some of the most vital aspects that are involved. Now first of all let's analyze the idea of love away from anything personal for a moment it has been said god is love and indeed the master who's behind our work as have masters behind all true occult teachings has told us, not once but many times, that if we must look for a reason for manifestation, that if we must look for a reason for individuation, for the appearance of separateness, there is only one answer that can be given if we know what it means.

And the answer is, the reason is because God is love.

All right now what might that mean well look at the way the universe acts and works we've heard of the law of gravitation I'm sure most of us have meditated on the idea that gravitation is an expression of love because what is gravitation it is attraction and attraction Attraction is what? When two things or elements, atoms, or groups of bodies are drawn together by attraction. It's called the law of gravitation. I think a better term would be the law of love. Really? Because remember in occultism we are taught that there isn't anything which exists which is not of of God, in God, and an expression of God.

So, the whirling nebulas, the planets swirling around their suns, the moons around the planets, all these composed of the various elements which finally work themselves down to the atom, all these things are in motion through the law of love, or as science likes to put it, the law of attraction through gravitation. But we say that inasmuch as all appearance is really a sensory experience of emotion of consciousness which in essence we can call God or life or the Lord of the universe whatever we want it's the same idea then indeed the very universe the physical universe is an expression of love because it is the law of attraction of of gravitation, which keeps elements together to form bodies.

And these bodies, whether they be suns or planets, or the physical vehicle which we walk about in, or the vehicle of a creature, or a tree, these are all being held together, a field of force, by the gravitational law, or let's call it the law of love.

Therefore we might say to begin with in trying to get a better understanding of love we could say then that every thing that exists exists because god is love exactly as the master has told us and as everyone has been taught truly though we usually don't know what it means it sounds beautiful and because it sounds beautiful we try to feel inspired but it's much more easy to be inspired when we know truly from a deeper part of our natures just what this beautiful thing is so we have that element that's involved now let's see how we apply it we certainly know that every human heart longs and yearns for love. I mean this is granted. It doesn't matter who the human being might be. Even that human being who thinks he or she has love, you'll find if you look deeply they're still longing for it. It apparently isn't all there or there wouldn't be the hunger continuing and continuing. Of course we have periods when we, shall we say, fall in love.

This is another term that is used and it is said to be a little different than just loving, although we'll examine it and see. We have periods when we fall in love where we think we've got it and perhaps for a week or a month or it might even last a year, this really intense tense aspect of it when the head is in the clouds and the whole being radiates and we look around and smile and everyone looks at us you know the saying all the world loves a lover and of course it's very helpful because the endocrine system as we know becomes quite stimulated when we're in love so it must be a very good thing to fall in love though usually we don't know what to make of it because we end up with its opposite as we shall see it must be a very wonderful thing and rather a lovely gift when we consider that it makes the eyes glow the skin radiate the lips smile the heart rejoice and the wonderful thing it does physiologically when you consider the energy that comes about through the entire endocrine stimulant.

And remember, the endocrine system in occultism definitely is tied up with what we call the psychic centers. It is through the endocrine system that we have our forced connections with the psychic and other vehicles.

And we must not overlook this. All occult work, all occult work, is aimed at stimulating the psychic centers which are called chakras in the Eastern philosophy and called the holy planets in Western occultism and for very good reason when we give our series on esoteric astrology as tied up with awakening of the chakras you will see why it is called the seven holy planets. Nevertheless, that has to be quite a long series.

Now then, when we consider the beneficial effects we have, at least temporarily, in this state of falling in love, we need to examine a little more closely what happens in this state.

Why are we not able to maintain it? And just how is this state applied to the other kinds of loving and perhaps even to the love of God. This is what we need to examine a little more fully. And let's not, any of us who have passed the age of 40 or 50, say, well, I'm so old now, it's too late for me.

Believe me, no one is too old to fall in love, my darlings. And do not give yourself such negative suggestions.

Because of course the first thing we want to examine is how to fall in love with ourselves and this does not mean what it usually means if not at all you see usually when the youngster and the adolescent falls in love what really happens is that an image is projected by from the man to the woman from the woman to the man they project an image upon each other of course this is our big problem anyway we project images upon each other and think that this is the reality of the person this is where the trouble comes in and yet believe me we can fall in love without being lost or deluded by the image this is what we have to learn to do but let's examine what usually happens the we project an image upon each other and so the woman sees the man as this idealized form of this great, like a godlike being truly. Oh he's wonderful! You'll hear the youngster and sometimes it's a youngster of 40 or 50 or 60 but still in the falling in love, he's wonderful! Or he will say, oh she's glorious! But you see See, unfortunately, what is being experienced as wonderful and glorious, and what the glow is really about, is that one has become enamored with one's own image.

Now mind you, there's nothing wrong with being enamored of one's own image if one knows that this is what it is. To use a principle is one thing, to be deluded by it is another. Other so that just as we have told you before human beings may live together and speak together and share many things together for a lifetime and they've never communicated at all not at all they've never really known each other at all in the same way people fall in love and naturally they don't know each other because they're in love with an image they're not able yet yet to fall in love with the true being.

Not yet, but it's good. This, the falling in love, apparently is good practice anyway, it keeps one's hand in, in the ability to at least project the certain intensity of emotion. And in the long run, everything serves a constructive purpose, no matter how painful it might be in its repercussions while we are evolving and growing. But let's try to understand this principle more so that we will not make the same mistakes that the youngsters make.

We have then this mutual projection of an image which is so glorious and we call the state of falling in love. And usually when two individuals marry, especially if they marry very quickly, immediately starts the disillusionment because after all one's ideal image would do everything exactly as one wants that image to be and do and act and this goes in both directions so then we start having disillusionments and we find out that he is a so-and-so because he did this and that and the other and she is absolutely unbearable what did I ever see in her she does such and such and such I mean this happens when the mutual projection was completely and entirely picture without any of the real affinities that that might have existed underneath you have complete disillusionment when the in love was complete in love with just the projection and indeed this is true of most human beings very rarely very rarely indeed are there even one or two real traits that we have been aware of and accepted in our hearts and because we have been trained to think and feel in certain ways and certainly certain responsibilities that come with relationships especially if there are children we sigh and we make the best of it but we walk through life very unhappy, very frustrated, very cheated, very cheated indeed.

And what usually happens, unfortunately, is that our capacity for love becomes less and less and less as we walk in these frustrations, in these disappointments. Well, of course, we're talking about the extreme cases, and there are too many such on this planet, too many, tragically too many. However we also have those who are capable of maturity sometimes some people are almost born with this ability and I guess it's because previous in previous incarnations they have had enough repercussions so they have learned to differentiate a little bit between the projected picture and the true person and then where there's been a real contact with the true person there's always a better understanding or companionship. Still, it's never really perfect. At least the few that might be perfect are so few indeed that I wonder if more than a hundred exist on the whole planet. Believe me, I am not giving you a pessimistic evaluation here. We know human nature very deeply indeed and And we know how few human beings there are who walk in true love, in true love.

Now then, people become unhappy, discouraged, frustrated, and they often decide, well, I just am being taught by the Lord of the Universe to stop loving individuals. I have to go beyond that. Gotta love God.

You see I mean this is a lovely act but Jesus said a new law I give unto thee love ye one another and my darlings no human being even begins to have the capacity to love God or know God until he has learned how to love humanity love ye one another nevertheless no human being knows how to love humanity until he has learned how to love himself and how are we going to learn to love ourselves well acceptance of course it's a nice easy word how are we going to learn to accept ourselves it's not done overnight that's one of the things that our work is all about that's one of the things that Tarot is is all about, that Qabalah is all about. People are being trained to fall in love with themselves.

But of course we don't tell them that because if we said to you at the beginning of the course, what we want you to do really is to fall in love with yourself. I mean, you probably never would have started studying with us at all.

Because after all, that's selfishness. Look at all these egomaniacs. Trouble with them is they love themselves too much. Haven't you heard it? But that they don't love themselves darlings. Ecomaniacs never love themselves. Ecomaniacs hate themselves. That is why they have to force their importance upon others. A person who loves himself and loves others doesn't have to have such unhappy drive. So let's give a few examples, but you know that's always the best way. To show in the homely ways how these things act. Well, let me give you one case history very briefly of what love is not, but where the people think they love. Because when we can see that, it helps us to recognize where we've made our errors through illusion and delusion in the past. That'll help us to wipe out some of the frustrations and unhappinesses we still carry. And perhaps even discover how we feel about people right now who we're supposed to be close to.

So let me give you a true case history that has come very recently to my attention.

This man and woman married when they were very young. He was only 18. She was, I believe, 22. There was six years difference, but he knew she wouldn't have her. If she knew how young he was, he told her he was her age. And they married. She was his very first love. He came to her pure and original and full of idealism, a very idealistic soul by the way, a very sweet idealistic soul. They married and had a couple of children. However, from the very beginning he found himself subjected to tirades which he didn't pay too much attention to being very young he didn't know that this was very abnormal in a relationship he was very naive though he was quite brilliant in other ways managed in time to attain to a very prominent position but you see we can be very bright in some ways and be very blind and perhaps almost mons in the field of human relationships and yet the most important place to learn how to be bright is in the field of human relationships all else will come when we learn that love ye one another so the marriage progressed through many years of this, and this, because this was a very young boy and because he had very erroneous ideas, idealistic as he was, he fell by the wayside once and was absolutely horrified with himself over the terrible thing he had done. Well, it was certainly a very foolish and weak sort of thing to do, let us grant it.

Nevertheless, he could not bear his guilt, so he ran to his wife to unload his guilt by confessing to her.

And then we had, of course, you can imagine the situation. There was a blow up that almost equaled the atomic bomb.

And of course, we do not blame the poor woman in the case either. This is the sort of thing that happens when people aren't totally fulfilled even though they are not aware of the fact it is apt to happen quite often in life and we need to understand what makes people do these things in order to finally outgrow these tendencies so she now had something even more thorough and real with which to use the tirades well it is now 25 years since this couple married they are still together but here is the situation and this we need to understand because we all do the same things in lesser measure and perhaps some of us equally that way in relationships. Here is the situation now. Well let's first tell you about three years ago the man finally went to a marriage counselor. He was determined that marriages got to work. He went to a marriage counselor. The marriage counselor tried and tried to talk to him.

He had he said I want to know what it is that your wife feels is wrong with you as a husband so he went to his wife and asked her he said the psychiatrist wants to know what you feel is wrong with me as a husband and she said I'll tell you I'd love to tell him what's wrong with you as a husband here you write this down first of all you are a liar you lied to me about your age when we got married second of all you're a cheat incidentally he happened to steal a couple of library books in the first year of their marriage he wanted them so badly very naughty thing to do of course but that had been 20 years for three years previously you're a you're you're a cheat and a thief you stole those two library books there you go you have absolutely no integrity or honesty or dependability he he occasionally came half an hour or 45 minutes late came home for that late for supper when he got lost in business he was a very top executive and the top executives do get caught in things and get all concentrated perhaps in a job that has to get done so there was that you have no integrity no honesty furthermore you're a lousy lover and I forget what the final but it was equally that oh yes and you paw women that was the expression you paw women which he didn't really he was one of these sweet there's a sweet librarian you know right when a very librarians are very sweet towards other people and gracious and anyone who's jealous of course would interpret it in ways that the jealousy interprets so these complaints were brought to the psychiatrist who finally got her to come to see him in order to try to get her personal reaction well by the time they were through this is what what the psychiatrist said.

Now this is very rare. He said to the man, divorce her.

You are both unrealistic about each other.

You cannot see each other as real selves at all.

And furthermore, she wants to demasculate you.

In other words, she wants to neuter you psychologically psychologically, because of her bitterness, there is absolutely no hope, no opportunity, there's no chance that you two can get together because you've never even met each other, let alone get together.

Well, the man was horrified. He said, what?

Divorce my wife? I love her! Now, daily he had been subjected to hysterics, name-callings all through these years, mind you. He had been rejected in the marital act regularly, told also how inept he was, and yet he was determined, he loves his wife, he's going to keep his marriage. The psychiatrist was wrong and he was determined he was going to keep this marriage well and make it work that she was going to accept him now what was the real situation there well I think you've already seen they had never met each other she had a vision a dream and she never matured enough to accept him as he was and incidentally he was a very sweet human being he had never been able to accept her as she was She was a very bitter, jealous, possessive, hate-ridden human being. He had to see her as being loving because she said she was loving.

And he had to accept that because she said that of herself.

So that a lifetime together, saying, I love, she was always saying, I am deeply in love with you, you are my whole life.

And he said, I love you.

But my darlings neither of them ever loved the other at all because they never even met so how could they love they never made real contact with each other's hearts with each other's souls with each other's personalities not really and so you see many human beings go through life because they They have decided on a picture or a pattern that they think in relation to that person. They go through life determined because they have to see themselves as being loving.

Incidentally, this man has to see himself as being honorable because she has told him she's not. With integrity, she has said he's not. He has to see himself as being noble because she has implied he's not. And as being spiritual because she has said he's not so he's going through life and has gone through life trying to prove to her that he is the qualities the qualities that she has claimed he is not and he has gone through life collecting injustices now how many of us are injustice justice collectors. Hunting for the evidences in the other person that show that they are not completely and thoroughly focused on us. Hunting, hunting. We all do it if we watch ourselves. This, of course, is not healthy, even though we must be aware. So here's an example of people who are determined that they each are in love with the other, and And they are not.

They don't even love each other. He is a masochist who wants to remain where he can be reviled and degraded. And he hasn't.

And she is an injustice collector, a martyr and a sadist.

And they each fulfill the other beautifully, beautifully on the negative side in other words this is what we call negative attachment negative attachment and this is our great problem darlings all of us to become aware of negative attachment we become negative attachment imprisons us more thoroughly and has more power over us and directs what we decide to do more fully than does love did you know that it's because we haven't grown up enough when we grow up enough it will not be so and before we can grow up we must recognize and see what this is and how we every one of us utilize it in various ways this I hope is not too shocking to all of you to hear but truly occult aspirants must be willing to look at truth honestly we must be willing to look reality in the face because reality my darlings is good it is beautiful it is glorious and if we suffer pain at discoveries it is only because we are clinging to the negative negative attachments or the pattern that we have formed that we think is our security let's look honestly and see and then we will be ready to do something about it of course tarot is exactly what's going to see to it that we do something about it if we work with it and the rest of our work it will do it for us only if we utilize it fully and regularly and consistently in other words there is a way out of this trap if we choose to work with it and if we're desperate enough to work with it now then what is love I mean let's give you a little anecdote now to show about love now in this instance I'll give you a little experience of mine not showing how loving I am because of course I know I'm loving though some might disagree with my idea of what loving is but I'm very fortunate I have fallen in love with myself by the grace of God and I enjoy it very much but this little anecdote has to do with a friend of mine showing how truly he knows how to love and he does I was with this friend one day and we were he was taking me somewhere on an errand and the question came up about trusting people and I said to him uh do you trust me or rather I asked him do you trust me and if you'll excuse my language please but I am quoting quote he said hell no unquote quote I chuckled and I said you don't he said no I said why he said well he said maybe that isn't exactly the right answer and yet he said well let me put it this way he said I know that if I wanted you to do a certain thing and you decided that it wasn't your nature or in your ethic or your idea to do it you would just go about your sweet way and if I asked you did you if you thought I'd get angry at you you'd lie to me you'd say oh sure I did and I said well I said I've only done that about once or twice haven't I and you would have gotten angry and had you become angry it would have interfered with the lovingness of our friendship and I figured you know time uh will soothe the the breast and it didn't injure you did it he said oh my no certainly not I said do you ever tell a lie a white lie if someone wants to force you to do things a certain way which is not in accordance with your basic beingness or integrity he said no I guess not I said okay I said you see I'm no different than you are there but uh he said well no there's something else he said now for instance he said if I gave you a gift of money for christmas or your birthday and said to you now this money is to be spent on such and such he said I know very well that you'd pay no attention at all before I know it it would be spent on your daughter or your grandson or a friend or someone else and he said my purpose would have been thwarted I said oh yes I said you're still angry with me he said well I'm annoyed he said you thwarted my purpose I gave you a sum of money for a birthday present for you to buy yourself a purse and the next thing I know your grandson has the orthopedic shoes I didn't give it to you for his orthopedic shoes I gave it to you for a purse I said well I said now then that gift of money was not a free gift you didn't transfer the money to me to do as I please what you wanted to do you were making me an agent for you you appointed me as your agent and I said you know me I just didn't accept the appointment did I I said because if I have a gift if it's a free gift now it gave me greater pleasure to to see that my grandson had orthopedic shoes and that I should have a purse. Besides, it was too much trouble for me to go buy a purse. It was very easy to just hand it over to my daughter to see that my grandson had orthopedic shoes. So we chuckled about that. Now mind you, all this was in laughing, chuckling, accepting good humor. So there was this chuckle involved between us. And I said, well don't you trust me in anything he said silly of course I do he said I would trust you to never do anything to hurt me that was within your power to always protect me and help me if I were in trouble to fight for me if you thought that there was an injustice being perpetrated against me I I would trust you and all that.

I said, you see, that you trust me in the important things. It isn't very important if I refuse to be your agent then, is it, in funds?

Or if I will tell a white lie in order to avoid having you annoyed with me. And he said, that is correct.

And I said, you know, I really am very happy to hear that you don't trust me.

I mean, I was having a wonderful time. I said because this is real love you are not trying to make me or you are not trying to fool yourself into thinking I am certain qualities you are willing to accept that I am me and that I am going to be me no matter what anyone else wants and yet in essence you love me and you're devoted to me because you know that in the important thing I am there I accept you in other words you accept me as I am this do you see this is really love he does not approve of the fact that I refuse to be his agent if he gives me a gift of money but figure it's a free gift he he doesn't like the idea that that I might occasionally tell a white lie, though he agrees that he would tell a white lie too, as we all know if we are honest with ourselves.

Nevertheless, there is no rancor, there is no resentment, there's even chuckle. He's amused, and he accepts, and he's a devoted, a truly devoted friend. Now this is love, and it's the kind of love we all need to have.

But we do not get this kind of love unless we learn how to give it. And we do not learn how to give it until first we learn to accept ourselves.

So that what we like to tell aspirants is basically this.

Don't feel it is so important that you have all the noble qualities or whatever these qualities are that you have decided are spiritual qualities like thoughtfulness and love consideration unselfishness these are words words words when it's a vital to us to think of ourselves as having all these angelic qualities because anyone who had them perfectly would already be be an angel wouldn't have to be incarnated here when we have to think of ourselves as having all these wonderful qualities then we have to hate ourselves every time we do the things or feel the things that are not expressing them in other words we have to be disappointed with ourselves we have to or we have to feel grieved and then it is a an emotion towards ourselves which is negative you see we're not accepting what we are and if we're not accepting what we are we are not able to do things about it it's like the couple we told you about they cannot accept what each other they cannot see what they are really to each other the real characteristics are unseen by them that's why they're unable able to do anything about it so that if we see we have this little immature trait that little immature trait the important thing is to accept it as we do with a child as we do with a pet and to accept it exactly in the same spirit as with a child you know that indulgence when my dog is naughty and my dog is very reprehensible indeed at times as Mrs. Case will guarantee she will go off on garbage hunts that are the most fantastic intense determined hunts that we ever came across and she will empty out the garbage can she will knock them down she's very ingenious and she's very clever and if she wants something she's going to figure out a way to get it you You know, she's already 15 years old, but she's as ingenious today as she was as a pup.

And she goes on these hunts and she becomes quite an annoyance. It is very annoying indeed to find the garbage can knocked over, the cover off, and the nice distribution, hither, thither, and yon.

She is very naughty in other ways too. Nevertheless I scald her I'll occasionally even spank her and we need to love must know when you really love love must know of course I see Mrs. Case is smiling and she's figuring that my scolding and spanking is sort of like rewarding her for good behavior she's probably but be that as it may at least I try to use the proper discipline and and besides she is 15 years old and one becomes more indulgent when they reach that age you know for a little dog it's quite something at any rate it doesn't stop my loving the little creature as a matter of fact even though I get annoyed and even though I have to spank her and discipline her occasionally in a way I'm also rather proud of the fact that she's that ingenious you see this is acceptance where love is not interfered with the reason I like to give such a ridiculous example really is because if we see it in the ridiculous we're more apt to see it in its more homely and regular applications besides it's more entertaining too don't you think helps wake us up a little bit and it's true I'm telling you the truth about that little dog she does just that and I feel exactly that way nevertheless there is this charm about the individuality of the uniqueness of the creature now this is what we need to feel about ourselves and each other the charm about our own uniqueness uh let's take vanity now vanity of course we've all heard about the terrible things about vanity and it's vanity vanity all is vanity and there are moans and there are groans but has it ever occurred to you there might be something very charming about vanity well if we dress up with a new dress or a new suit tie our hair is just so and we look in the mirror isn't there something rather charming about being able to say you're a handsome devil in the mirror I'll make you feel good gosh you're you're you're nice-looking see you got a nice and sweet expression see now what's wrong with this kind of vanity it's harmless it's laugh laughable in a way but it's the self chuckle now it's the self chuckle we need to develop for falling in love with ourselves and just this little example of vanity gives us an idea of how easy it could be all right so we do get angry sometimes say we've blown up at someone as all of us will occasionally afterwards instead of brooding and feeding this anger I mean isn't it just as well to sort of see it pretty much like Mrs. Case's little dog Fritzie he has a very reprehensible characteristic too though I'm sure she would not like to grant it and maybe she would if she does it will be with the same indulgence that I feel towards Sadi. Now he has a bone there. He might not want it at all, but when Sadi comes, that's my dog, he guards that bone and growls and snaps at her and he becomes the most possessive, devilish, teasing, and we've known him to absolutely guard a bone for many, many hours. And Sadi just as patiently watching for many many hours. I mean there was a meaning in life. Life is suddenly very exciting. I've got something I'm going to be able to keep you from having. Ha ha ha. That's human beings, darlings, that we're showing you.

Well if we see it and then laugh. You see the chuckle to see the immaturity of it. And laugh at it. You see we're able to laugh at it when we hear about Fritzi and Fadi doing these things. If we can learn to chuckle at ourselves, at these displays, it is amazing how much more quickly we'll be able to transmute them.

Because this again is indulgent affection and love, which we can chuckle because we think we're feeling affection for the little creatures and therefore for their foibles. In other words, when you love a human being, you love them for what they are, for their weaknesses as well as their strengths. You look into reality and you revere their uniqueness and you are very willing to have them think differently and feel differently about different subjects. And you have a lovely time having hearty discussions which some people might call arguments but but they're not, if there's goodwill. You are loving that individual when you are accepting that person's unique point of view, and instead, therefore, of recriminations, of condemnations. You know, so and so is a, you know how often we say, I always like to remind people, elections, presidential elections are coming up, and every democrat's going to call the republicans damn fools and every republican's going to be calling the democrats the damn fools for believing in and being taken in by the propaganda of the other instead of the honesty of the real fine representatives which are ours uh this This is separative, and it does not lead to the awakening, the falling in love with self and others.

We must not take ourselves too seriously in these areas if we would discover the glorious reality of what we are, and if we would learn how to thrill to the beauty and the miracle of life in ourselves and others.

Work with the tarot work with the tree of life when you get to it which is the Qabalah and you will learn you will see but meanwhile having these little examples we hope will help you to do it a little more rapidly as we show it in this homely way but try to work at chuckling with yourself accepting yourself try to fall in love with yourself that you you You, every single one of you, are unique miracles expressing God.

As we say in our prayer, God looks through your eyes. Indeed.

Thrilled to that. God hears through your lips. Indeed. Thrilled to that. Isn't that enough reason to fall in love with yourself? God feels through your hands.

God speaks through your mouth. God walks through your feet. Thrilled to it. Remind yourself look at this glorious day we have today that blue sky would have been better to have our talk outside under that glorious blue sky that's the gift of god fall in love with it fall in love with the sky but how will you fall in love with the sky unless you have your relationship that's pure the pure relationship is the accepting relationship the willingness to see and then it expands and expands and then to have infinite love all you have to do is start having love exactly where you are with the gratitude that god does live you now wake up in the morning and just say I'm in love with god and I'm in love with myself prance around everyone remembers how don't you all remember how you felt when you were in love start prancing around that way telling yourself you're in love with yourself remember that's God because who made me God made me and they sound silly but isn't it true it's not silly at all and then you will find you will find that love will come back to you in waves of glory beyond anything you can imagine you will not have to yearn for love long for love anyone who loves self and loves life and loves god and is willing to accept everyone and see the miracle and love them for being a miracle even if they're a reprehensible miracle at times such a person will never know loneliness and then if you're meant in this incarnation to have that most complete in love of male female this is the way you have to to prepare yourself to be worthy of it. I mean at least it's beginnings. There's a lot more involved but it's too late. We certainly could never do it all in one talk anyway. But you know love is our favorite topic. We don't want to stop. So darlings fall in love if you know what we mean now and we will now proceed with the service.
