The talk for this morning is Spiritual Workers Incarnate and Discarnate. But as you know, the last two talks and an unnumbered future amount of talks, I don't know how many it will be, it depends, will be slanting every talk I give on the principles of color and sound, the vibratory powers that we utilize in the Western Mysteries, and are working with here in the temple. And so I am attempting to help give you an understanding of the powers of what has been called by our Eastern brethren, the mantras, the powers of the use of the vibratory techniques in order to help attain transmutations and alignments with energies beyond that which we usually can touch. It's pretty much like learning how to become a radio set with the use of transistors. And now there's an even smaller unit which is being given out commercially. And I think there's a smaller one yet, which is not yet commercial.

I just think this intuitively, but I'm pretty sure it's taking place in the mode of development of transmission and reception and of course though very few people realize this all transmission and all reception whether it be on a level where we listen to a physical voice and listen with a physical ear or talk with a physical voice thinking a physical ear is listening and vice versa that that this type of communication or correlation of vibrations is all we can know. But in occultism, and very particularly in Western occultism, we know that the vibratory methods of communication take place at all times, whether we are aware of it or not. In other words, we are at all times being influenced by the vibratory aspects of the portion of our being, which is even smaller than a transistor.

Or perhaps smaller isn't the proper word to use.

At least on the physical plane, power seems to manifest in smaller and smaller units. For example, think of the power manifesting when we're able to take pictures of the physical surface of the moon.

And yet the amount of intricate, I mean amazingly intricate little bits of whatever it is they're using, that's even smaller than the transistor, sister. The amazing usage of this very much correlates with the use of all consciousness of powers which are absolutely inherent in consciousness, and anything that evolves on a physical plane is the result of consciousness. And so within the scientific frameworks, we have a development of a larger area of awareness taking place within a smaller framework of transmission reception in the radio, TV, picture-taking, picture-making aspects of the universe.

those of you who've been interested in the development of these things can see the correlation very quickly those of you who are in any fields which work with these aspects can see this quickly those of us who just know intuitively can still feel happy that there are physical correlates to spiritual, mental, emotional realities and vice versa. Now the idea of spiritual workers, incarnate and discarnate, really involves basically the idea of being able to contact consciously or or intuitively, that level of energy or energies, which gives us a recognition or realization that consciousness is not separate, whether it's within a physical body or whether it is functioning within a body that may be called etheric, astral, mental, emotional, or spiritual, and therefore may not be seeable by a physical eye. The impact of one human being upon another is not dependent basically on what we hear, though what we hear has a great deal of influence upon us. And in the same way what we see, what what we touch, what we taste.

All of these things belong in a grouping of awarenesses which are not as separate as most of us have thought. And as those of you who have been coming to the Thursday night classes are surely aware of by now, the discarnate kind of power, projection and reception, is not so different from the so-called incarnate or physical plane power of reception and projection as we may have thought. Because the only difference in a way, just in one way, this is an analogy, the only difference might be said to exist in that framework of concentration of our own minds which are giving attention to a certain thing. When you're interested in what someone is saying, for example, you don't hear a lot of noise going on around you. Birds singing or squawking or fighting, animals screeching or barking or making sounds of happiness, radios or TVs being on or off in the neighbor's homes or even in another room, when we are fully concentrated on one thing or one person or one situation, we blank out the other things that are taking place. And yet they are taking place all around us. In the same way, when we are within a physical incarnation, we are blanking out all sorts of energies, motions, vibrations, which are taking place around us, and they are impinging upon us. But our conscious mind is not registering, because it is focused down to something of extreme interest. Haven't you ever had the experience of of being so enthralled or involved, perhaps in an unhappy way, because we can be enthralled and involved happily or unhappily, and yet each gives a complete focus, which locks away other things.

But haven't you found yourselves in a position where you were so focused, so concentrated so full of attention on one particular idea or thought or emotion or person that the things taking place around you did not take place in your conscious mind because your attention wasn't accepting it is there anyone here who could really say they've never had at least one experience like that and most of us have it over and over again fairly regularly you know now the fact that we are unaware of a radio or TV in a neighbor's house or the squawking or singing or fighting of birds outside or all sorts of noises that are taking place doesn't mean that they are non-existent they are there and and the impact is being made, but your conscious mind is so focused elsewhere that it does not know that these things are happening on the conscious level. In the same way, I have been trying to help you to see that being in a physical body, going through those experiences which become a part of a concentration on a vibratory level which we call the physical plane, does not in any way negate or nullify the influences that are occurring on a plane in which your attention is not being receptive at a particular time. Now that time may be a whole physical incarnation like 60, 70, 80, 120 years and some people say God forbid, you know, when it comes to 120 years, but it all depends on what the 120 years consists of. If we don't become senile, and if we're physically well, and still full of the wonder and joy of life, 120 years is just as joyous a time, or that 120th year is just as joyous as any other time, and more so.

It all depends on the conditions of that particular period. So never say, God forbid, bit about a certain age level because you've seen others respond negatively to it that has become senile and become many other things but just realize that the focus of consciousness is what determines what we are aware of but does not determine what is happening the focus of consciousness is a locking away from conscious uh thinking feeling at the moment conscious thinking feeling that doesn't mean we're not thinking feeling the things that are happening in uh around us in other ways haven't you had the experience of course you had of suddenly becoming joyous for no reason on the conscious level that you know of or suddenly becoming despondent for no reason on the conscious level that you know of or suddenly becoming anxiety ridden or fearful which is the same though they there are different degrees secure suddenly feeling like you can lick the world except we should want to lick it you just want to control it spiritually but still it's an expression that gives an idea of a feeling of power within ourselves or the reverse of feeling absolutely helpless more helpless than the babe newborn we've all had these sudden immersions in these moods and we wonder what's the matter with me but you see if we knew more thoroughly more more firmly, more completely, that we are all a receiving-sending station at the same time at all times as not just transistor sets, but in a much more condensed focus.

And the more condensed the focus, apparently the more power you have. You know, the compression brings power.

And it may help you to understand, I will point this out to you over and over again that coming into a physical incarnation is a compression of your consciousness Isn't it? think of that you're compressed into a physical body with its senses and You're experiencing life through the compression of a very narrowed area of awarenesses but remember compression you know you you get up ahead of steam they say compression what works an automobile compression isn't that what is sending our rockets out into space is that correct isn't it is it compression well whatever else compression is an element that has to be there so you see it is a the compression of certain energies that gives the power to go beyond the limitation of that particular instant or moment. And being in a physical body, in a physical world, or being incarnate, actually is the compression of the consciousness which gives that particular consciousness or soul more power to escape, shall we say, the gravity of the planet? I think that is at least a philosophically expressed way of trying to give you the idea of how the satellites get away from the earth. I may not be using the exact terms correctly, not having any mechanical knowledge, but but the principle, I think, you will see as existing within that framework, and principles are true within all frameworks, and within all levels.

So, the incarnate, individualized being, which we are, while we are within a physical body, certainly cannot be said to be so different from what we may call the discarnate being or consciousness, if we try to bear in mind that is merely a focus of attention on some aspect of the power. In other words, within a physical incarnation, we have more of that compression, condensation, which deepens and intensifies the the power. On the discarnate level, you might say we become more aware of the significance of this kind of compression, this kind of power, and spread it out into our consciousness so that it becomes a more solid part of our eternal understanding and wisdom. Now, some of us have reached a point where we can get to this wisdom and understanding while we're in a body. In other words we can not only be aware of the significance of the compression and the power the building up the steam we can help build up this head of steam or help build up this compression which will push us off into space except the occult idea of space is expanding out into larger areas of consciousness with a capital C.

And our consciousness, which we may use a small c on, but which isn't really correct because our individualized consciousness would be understood more correctly if we would say that it is one portion of the full head of steam of the infinite evolution of God.

of every power element in the universe has a gathering together of specific units.

And this happens everywhere. For instance, in getting up ahead of steam, you have a gathering together of a specific amount of units of so-called atoms, which have gathered together into larger units which we call molecules which have gathered together into larger units and it so it goes and whenever you compress these units you have explosions now the very explosions are part of what make us a larger consciousness and yet we cannot explode into a larger part of the consciousness for a second or a moment or much longer unless we have first learned how to compress our consciousness and use this compression in a direction that we choose now compressing our consciousness and using it in a direction that we choose is seen very clearly in on the physical plane when we think of each and every one of us as being within a physical body because your consciousness is infinitely more than what your physical body could remotely register on the conscious level but your computer system which you yourself have built your subconscious mind having gone through all the experiences of the past your computer system already has registered and has the ciphers, shall we say, built into it, because you yourself have put it there, in order to be able to react and respond to certain conscious experiences. And thereby, by doing this, you discover whether or not your compression is directing you towards the direction you want to go. If not, then you have to start making calculations, and isn't that having good judgment? Now in our daily lives, good judgment about an hour from now or tomorrow or ten years from now.

It's a matter of judgment. Now when materialistic scientists try to correlate correlate computer systems to the human consciousness and try to say that all that human consciousness is is a sort of automatic reaction to computer data and that they're machines. They give them names, you know. They get so fond of the little computer machines, they become Susie and Daisy and they're petted on the head, on the nice little steel or chrome heads or whatever material they develop, and they're thought of as being so magnificently aware because they can react to mistakes. Haven't you read some of these things in magazine articles or in books or even in some newspaper articles?

there's a development of a worship of false idols false idols and of course we all have this tendency or it wouldn't occur in our world although we don't recognize it and neither do these so our some of our very brilliant scientists who are that is brilliant in their field but not brilliant otherwise more or less like educated morons So they're educated very brilliantly in the area in which they're educated They try to tell us That in as much as they can take and make little holes that are ciphers you know like if there are little two holes and a perforated tape it'll mean a and if there are two holes one size and then a tiny little dotted hole that is almost infinitesimal, make another letter, etc., they feed a code that they perforate onto a tape. And they say, this is the way your consciousness is. All consciousness is is automatic reaction that has no real meaning, which is nonsense because if they're putting meaning into it, where did the meaning come from all these computers that they have built have been built because a conscious mind dreamed it up and when you look at the extraordinary computer system as one aspect of the system of your physical body when you are incarnate and of the whole physical world you can see it took an extraordinary consciousness to dream this up that is created and dreaming a thing up that isn't putting uh uh any nonsense into it basically it isn't casting aspersions on dreaming a process this is the creative principle of all of us we can dream up nightmares and we can dream up glories and ecstasies, and they are no less real. But the attempt to see the whole physical incarnation limitation, which we have within a physical incarnation, as being just an automatic computer system is about as much nonsense as trying to say that a typewriter figured out a way to build itself now can you imagine that or a computer figured out a way to build itself or in an organized manner and how could you have figured out a way to build yourself if you were just an automatic response mechanism but if you had a consciousness that was creative and could dream it up that's how you could do it you dream it up and then you put it to the test and you start working out an expansion of power through what? Through compressing your consciousness.

Now, the discarnate has the same ability that the incarnate, that is a unit of consciousness that is said to be dead, is dead in what way? Only in this way that that the attention, the awareness, isn't focused on only one level of how things work, or how they ought to work, or how we try to make them work.

Its attention is focused on the principle that is only in part, on the principle that gives the ability to dream up these levels so that on the discarnate state in the discarnate state provided you have achieved an evolutionary level where you are not tied like the materialistic scientist to a nonsensical interpretation of what makes a body and what makes power on this discarnate side if you've reached that evolutionary level, you are able to realize just how you use the compression principle in order to continue to be an evolutionary worker. Now this may surprise you because lots of people have thought that the moment you drop the limitation of the physical body, which is what? The the compression state that is growing more understanding and awareness and power to get away from the gravity of whatever the earth is and the thinking and feeling. It may surprise you to hear that the spiritual worker is limited in that area in accordance with the evolutionary age of that particular unit of consciousness or that soul. But the point is that only as we can bring certain insights, wisdoms and understandings of the way power is developed and then used to get away from the limitation of the idea of gravity, only as we have this can we start using the power more and more in the direction that we choose, that we choose. Otherwise we are tossed about like the leaf on the wind or like the small portion of physical matter on a hurricane. We're tossed about until we learn to recognize that we we ourselves can take the powers of the hurricane in a personal sense and condense these powers into ourselves to direct the same powers that are destructive into construction. It's like the power of the atom. It can be used for destruction or construction. The powers of of anything can be used in either way.

But on the discarnate side of life, the ability to be a spiritual worker is very much more intensely correlated with the capacity for that particular soul to understand and to realize that there has to be found a way, a means, a method to get into a framework of concentration which is not as natural to the states above the physical plane.

You see, as I've been trying to explain to you, on the physical plane we are automatically in a state of concentration. That is, we're concentrated on our own physical bodies, our own physical senses, the correlation of experiences within this physical framework. work. We are automatically concentrated because the whole soul has immersed itself in this concentration and can see the world only through the concentration of the kind of eyes it has, hear through the kind of ears, touch through the kind of nervous system, feel through the kind of nervous system that brings in that amount of feeling. It's like having a sensitive musical instrument or a gross one. Having a very, you know, the child's, haven't you ever picked up a little child's piano with one octave, a soft tune, and then listen to a grand piano being played by a master of the piano, a virtuoso? Haven't you ever noticed that difference? It's the same difference, spiritually speaking, between those who can see, use these vibratory principles within the framework in which we are at the moment, and use them for expansion, or also, and, or I should say, and also, be able to use the the same principles on the discarnate side of life, that is, be able to bring over the same degree of discipline that a physical body forces on you, whether you're a disciplined person or not.

See, suppose you were an alcoholic.

Now, that's a very undisciplined kind of consciousness. It's not able to control its desire for alcohol, and it keeps itself in a state of unconsciousness a good portion of the time.

Now suppose, then, of this kind of consciousness that keeps itself unconscious because it cannot hold this compression, it doesn't want to hold it, it's unable to within a physical state. Suppose on the discarnate state. we have the same kind of consciousness that cannot hold a framework of energy what will happen dissipation of energy no real growth can take place can it as you can see you can't get off this planet with a with the rockets unless you're using the principle of compression you can't learn anything unless you use the principle of compression by concentrating with your mind. Anything you've ever learned you've learned why because your mind has paid attention and when your mind pays attention it pays attention through the principle of limitation concentration and that means physical out plain training. Now there are many of us who reach a point in our spiritual growth where we can take over the ability to be concentrated into the discarnate side. Those of us who can then continue to function as spiritual workers or at least spiritual aspirants which which leads to becoming a spiritual worker, after we drop this physical body.

We can still do this.

But those who have not learned how to handle this concentration to a point of being able to take it over and use it find ourselves as dissipated there as we are here, either through alcohol or through namby-pambyism or through weakness of mind or weakness of heart. And so weakness is really that portion of our being which is not disciplined, concentrated, compressed into the direction that we decide or choose. the incarnate can be just as disciplined as the incarnate and indeed even more so provided all the lessons of incarnation all the lessons of being within the limitation the compression framework of the development of power provided these have been learned and brought brought with them because we know them so well. It's like if you learn how to play a piece of music, or how to write, or how to draw, or how to do something that has taken a lot of concentration. If you learn to do it well, you take it with you if you travel to another country.

But if you haven't, you lose it fast, especially if you're in a country where you can't practice it anymore. And the physical body, the physical incarnation, the incarnate state could be called the place where you practice concentration and develop it through practice into a deeper area in order to strengthen your soul, give greater understanding and wisdom to your nature, where you reap the repercussions of your problems, of your weaknesses, to the point where you say that's for the birds, although I hope you don't say that because we don't want to wish that on birds. We love birds.

We can say, in essence then, that as we place our consciousness into the spheres of spiritual desire and are willing to use the disciplines not as something that is an unhappy state, but as something that we walk towards, that we rejoice in. like walking into a wind and loving the wind on our faces, like walking into a rain and loving the storm that hits us as we walk in and through it, like loving the impact of a challenge and feeling that this is of God and not of devil, whatever that might mean, loving a problem because this problem is the same kind of gift that grows our insight our understanding whether we make a mistake or not when what's a mistake if we if we suffer discomfort we say i made a mistake and if we're not if we uh feel a sense of exaltation and oh i've won One, we figure we haven't made a mistake, but it might not necessarily be so.

Sometimes we may be, you know, someone who is a cannibal, may feel a great sense of exaltation at capturing some member of an opposite tribe and eating portions of them to get his spirit. There'll be great exaltation, but surely life is going to show that we have to respect the life of another.

and in the same way someone who thinks he has failed may not have failed but may have succeeded if there's been an experience in which he has learned that some focuses of power aren't so terrific or real after all that is they don't have that kind of meaning so you see it's a matter of judgment which we develop only in and through a physical plane incarnation and this judgment comes only as we come to recognize all physical incarnation as being the testing ground as i mentioned in the thursday night class the framework within which the organization of our whole consciousness is being tested in its creative field. Now on the discarnate side we have a slightly different set of circumstances but the principles do not change. On the discarnate side all we've dropped is a physical body. Now you may think the physical body is something you're dependent on. You are for a certain time but you're not dependent on your physical body for your eternal life you're dependent on your physical body for the evolution of your consciousness to develop the ability to expand through compression or shall we say to enlarge through accepting the disciplines of livingness and learning how to hold that awareness in fields so that you can create at will there. Here we come to the vital point of the use of vibratory formulas.

Now creating it will there, whatever there is, because it's not really there, it's really here. There's no there or here, it's a matter of the attention of the consciousness, as I've been trying to point out. In that state where consciousness then gets focused away from the physical body, which we call all death and into its slightly larger being and just slightly larger because remember while we're in a physical incarnation we still have all the other things we're just not concentrated on them and just like we haven't been able to hear the noises outside they've been all of our larger being has been with us and is with us all the time we're just not aware of it because we're not concentrated but those who come to this temple start becoming more aware of the larger area of us all the time still holding this concentration and you know that takes a bit of doing doesn't it but there's a tremendous satisfaction isn't there in walking through the physical plane tests and i shouldn't call them trials we think of this as sorrowful and it's not necessarily it It can be utterly joyous.

You can love a thunderstorm.

You can love the rain.

You should, too, all of these.

Where other people will cringe with fear, especially the soul that hasn't had an opportunity to understand it.

So whatever we happen to fear, it doesn't mean that this particular thing we fear is so terrible. The important thing to see is that when we are within a physical incarnation, we are no less a spiritual being working spiritually, if we have developed the capacity to do so, than when we are in a discarnate state, when we have no more focus on the physical plane at all, at least within terms of our own physical body, because we have no physical body anymore. Our whole focus of attention has then stretched itself out to include or become focused upon what we call the astral body.

And that astral body in itself consists of many other factors, like our thinking ability, our feeling ability, our automatic emotional reactions to past experiences, both incarnate and discarnate. it includes the age of our soul which can see into and interpret more or less correctly or incorrectly depending it is the surge of love or lack of love and these things we have in a physical well we're in the physical body also but we don't realize where they're coming from they're coming from these other vehicles which are just as much part of us now here as so-called there. Yet, if we come to recognize that spiritual workers are those who have, without any question, dedicated themselves unequivocally to become channels for the divine will, the divine love, the divine power when we come to recognize this as being our dedication when we dedicate ourselves to this idea we start welcoming the disciplines here and then we need less of them there incidentally we start not only welcoming these disciplines but we walk into them like a person who loves walking in the rain or loves a cold shower and becomes invigorated rather than injured like a person who loves a challenge because it keeps life exciting like a person who loves to see the changes and enter into the understanding of these changes instead of one who clings to patterns of lesser evolved states of our selfhood and clinging to these patterns refuses refuses to grow and sets up these kinds of conditions.

In the discarnate state, we are spiritual workers only to the degree that we have managed within the incarnate state, that is, within an incarnation. And remember, we come and go many times.

Reincarnation is a reality, whether we believe in it or not, reality is. is, but only to the degree that we have been able to utilize a particular physical incarnation state and many more than one in order to use the so-called problem areas as a growth compression energy state for ourselves so that we can get away from the gravitation or shall we say from the mass mind lower evolutionary level thinking feeling understanding only as we've been able to do this can we be true spiritual workers on the so-called discarnate side but there's another factor that's involved here and then we'll bring it into the color and sound work to correlate it. Now the other factor that we must understand is this, that having gone in for this disciplined dedication, this disciplined aspiration, and by disciplined remember now I don't mean something that's unpleasant. By now you should see that being Being disciplined is not necessarily an unpleasant state.

It's only unpleasant if we want to be alcoholics as regard undertaking the discipline of controlling our temper, or undertake the discipline of getting to work on time, or undertake the discipline of supporting ourselves or undertake the discipline of doing our share in the emanation of love and goodness to those that are close to us and any infinite number of other things you want to think of. It is only in not wanting or desiring to undertake the responsibilities that we are proving to our own deeper souls that we are not ready or able to function on levels of service elsewhere because he who cannot take control of whatever environment he has doesn't matter mother and father hate you so they hate you well sure we'd much rather they love us but then we have divine Divine Mother and Father to turn to. Some of us can use it as an excuse to make ourselves and everybody else miserable, to excuse ourselves from anything. And others can use the same thing to make us recognize that everyone has a certain area where they need to be nurtured and loved.

and that it's better to be a channel for divine mother-father than a channel for physical mother-father where rejection is felt and we can always choose which will be on either end of the line provided we've reached the evolutionary stage where we're able to and now being able therefore to utilize a limiting condition in our environment to help us to grow and love to have more compassion for others instead of to excuse ourselves away from our responsibilities of growth.

As we can do this, when we get to the discarnate side, we're able to bring with us this wisdom, this insight, this understanding, and we are automatically attracted to that level on the inner discarnate vibratory plane where we will be with a group who will teach us how to work with this power that we have earned here. We earn it and we develop it here. We use it more easily there if we've developed it here. If we haven't developed it here we can't use it there at all because we haven't got it.

Everything we really have is developed here, though it's dreamed up, shall we say, by that part of our consciousness which is always over there, that is your own higher soul on the highest spiritual vibratory level creation is dreamed up by the eternal part of us the testings and tryings by the eternal part of us but it is here that's tested and developed the developmental stages to see what still needs to be done hither thither young and so on now you always need special conditions for the development if you have really dedicated your heart your mind your soul your spirit to attain to spiritual power growth insight ability use for service knowing that first you have to prepare yourselves to be worthy to serve and to know how to serve is more to the point because if you know how you're worthy if you don't know how you're not you know it's that simple having used this kind of concentration this knowledge there's a second framework of usage of this kind of dedicated consciousness and this kind of dedicated aspiration which comes comes about. The vibratory formulas are what? Well, they're more than one thing, just like we are more than one thing. But for our talk this morning, let's think of it in this manner, that the use of vibratory formulas in color and sound actually is utilizing a principle of holding a group of vibrations together within a specified area, not any different in principle than the energies being held together that make our consciousness concentrate into a physical body, which means we are incarnate.

The principle is really the same, and the same principle functions there on the different levels of the other side side of this world you might say or it's really the same world another level of it but the ability to actually form a framework like the electromagnetic spectrum and to tune in to these spectrums similar to the thing that is being done now on another in another way and for a special purpose by our scientists who are able to take pictures of the moon and command the instruments from here. You realize the distance, physically speaking, in which this is taking place? Well that distance, physically speaking, is analogous to the distances within our own being, physical body, etheric body, astral body, emotional Emotional body mental body spiritual body. We have all these bodies, but they're all here Our focus is just in one area. They're all focusing down but are We're able to see just the one thing and we can't see it until we have this gathering together this fabulous amount of nerve threads into the physical from our spiritual nerve threads which are the eternal nerve threads that make us one with the the circulation of the universal body of which we are an eternal part.

Now this bringing into physical incarnation the larger energies of the other areas of consciousness, remember, member, involves the ability to concentrate our minds and hearts deliberately for the special purpose of spiritual service, as we have done with our higher soul in order to be in a body, out and in, out and in. The same principle is existing, except that here we have reached a point where we consciously undertake while we are in a physical body to bring about a group vehicle through the vibration of color and sound which has its correlation with all the vibrations of the universe it is a studied and deliberate effort to bring about a compression of spiritual powers that will reach into a larger area, that is, instead of just getting to the moon, let's say get to the sun or Mars or another galaxy, that analogy, a compression of power so that our whole consciousness can expand into an area where we will receive the energizing, the inspiration, the insight, the wisdom in time, not just immediately at one use, but through the continuous working, just like it has taken a continuous working of a principle to bring a body into existence, a physical body, and yet it is a consciously dreamed up creation, and that doesn't mean it's unreal as you know. It means that's the way all creation works.

So when we use color and sound here, what we're doing in essence is forming a framework, a form of of vibrations, where we're correlating the chant of the divine names in order to attune ourselves to each of the four Qabalistic worlds, which in turn give us a tune-in, just like the long-distance reception we've been getting from our satellites, but even much more intricate, naturally.

We are correlating this framework so that we can have a vehicle that will register the the levels of consciousness, knowing, and being that we cannot correlate ordinarily through just the intensification of our own physical vehicle by itself. It's a gathering together of centers of aspiration, and that's you, that's me, that's us, to bring about a kind of very much more condensed, a much more powerful vehicle, which you can call our group thinking and feeling within our vibration when we're chanting.

We bring in then an extra power, an extra compression, so that we can expand out into a larger service, be more influential in everything we think, more influential in everything we feel, more influential in all sorts of ways for instance a thought that always travels telepathically becomes more influential and travels a longer distance as we become a more vital strength and condensed power aspect of god when we join together in chanting the divine names what we're doing in essence is making an electromagnetic form within which energies can come which cannot come to us alone just like one cell in your body cannot have the kind of function that all your cells gathered together can have which makes your whole physical body with its extraordinary complexity a A single cell is a very simple consciousness.

But think of the consciousness you are with your multiplied cells. And in the spiritual level, it's even more so, except in a different way. But I can't go into these details at the moment. I'm giving them in the classes on Thursday nights.

But think how when you come here every Sunday morning and join in just the chant of the divine names. Now, the divine names doesn't mean that there are many gods.

It means a god expressing on different vibratory levels, like on a mental, emotional, spiritual, physical. Each of these has a correlation, a vibratory correlation. If we attune ourselves as a unit, because alone we can't bring in this kind of universal power. But if we attune ourselves as a unit of many things, like ourselves who gather together to make us a physical body, we gather together here in this temple to make us a spiritual body where we bring in spiritual powers that give us an extra compression and an extra power and capacity to develop our own personal evolution and to serve all this development for all that is and all that lives, in other words, for God, because everything is an aspect of God. It is in the group, deliberate and conscious group activity of this kind that we have here, that we develop this ability, and then it goes into to another stage where we do other forms of chanting that have the same principle but are utilizing other forces. Now the color and sound forces are, which we call the Qabalistic chant, are those which are getting us into an ability to, as a group vehicle, to bring bring in energies that come from, if you want to give the analogy in terms of astronomy, you might say from other galaxies.

In other words, it's a bigger field of bringing in energies that we express right back out for the healing of body, mind, heart, soul. There are many other levels of these energies that exist and that we're learning to use through the different formulas. We're going to be bringing you a great deal more of this in the future talks that I give on Sunday mornings, because everything I talk about I'm going to be aiming into a desire to help you understand the power of vibration and formula, and I have our beloved special group in the choir who will be helping me to do this, and then we will be bringing you extra demonstrations as we go along. at least for this morning we're about ready to go into the rest of the service well this morning please keep this in mind that as you chant the divine names as you chant Amen which gives an extra force compression force to the formula of divine focus of our own special centers as you do these things please Please bear in mind that you are enhancing and multiplying your own personal evolution because you're willing and able to form a group force here where we can bring in these energies from the most distant portions of consciousness which are not available in any other way.

And I'll help you to understand its use and abuse incidentally as well as other aspects of this as we go along in my talks, which I'll be giving in the future, starting in September. I'll be speaking on the second and fourth Sundays, and our beloved Reverend Eugenie Mard will be speaking to you on the first and third Sundays. So you'll be having a variety. But I will be continuing with the color and sound and vibratory power slant of every talk until I feel that you've all developed an ability to work, understand, and use this power as much as possible for the moment. And now we'll continue.
