The talk for this morning is the Living Tarot of the Soul, or is it the Living Soul of Tarot?

It's the Living Tarot of the Soul, which is quite a title.

It lends itself to many things and I would therefore have a choice.

No, I wouldn't have the choice. Let's say I would be receiving your choice as to which aspect shall be given because you see soul in the Qabalah has more than one meaning there are different levels of soul on the Qabalistic tree of life there is what we call the vital soul or the animal soul which all humanity shares with all living creatures it's also therefore therefore called the living soul, and this is that portion of our consciousness, or shall we say a portion of the subconsciousness, which holds the patterns of all the past evolution.

It also holds the emotional responses of these patterns, and it is something which is tied up with Mother Nature in a special sense now human superhuman or subhuman all living beings have a portion of this element or energy in their beings and that is why in Qabalah this is called the vital soul or the animal soul shared by humanity with all living creatures. And indeed if we stop to consider that the vital soul or the animal soul is that drive in us which keeps us surviving, which keeps us pushing, which keeps us driving, which gives us a sense of livingness in and through patterns. And remember patterns are what bring individuality we can see that we shouldn't look down on that thing that we call subconsciousness or say well it's only subconsciousness it's like when you say only it's like giving something a word as you know or a name and then deciding because you gave it a name you know all about it no one knows all about it not even the masters of wisdom we all know as much about it as we we are capable of touching, grasping, and experiencing.

And so the vital soul or the animal soul, that which we share with all humanity, the patterns, and remember, we receive our patterns through genetics, through some such tiny infinitesimal thing like a gene.

And several genes put in a chromosome. You know, they give things names, but this doesn't explain them at all, now, do they? There's no explanation there. It's a miracle. But through such infinitesimal little, I was going to say mechanics, in order to poke fun at the mechanistic theories, which try to tell us that computers can think like a man, or even like an ant, which is ridiculous because they can't. But I was attempting to poke fun at an idea that pervades, unfortunately very much pervades our present society that idea being that we think we know things once we've been given a name and looked up the meaning in a dictionary like the word soul or the word vital or the word pattern or the word gene or the word chromosome and yet here is a miracle of electrical livingness being handed on through what we say through a physical something and we don't even know what a physical something is to the physicist there is no such thing as a physical something the physicist reduces a physical body to its constituents in atoms now he doesn't even bother with atoms anymore because now he's been breaking down the atoms and discovering that the atoms are made up out of a very complex nucleus aside from the electrons that whirl around a nucleus so they're busily inventing larger and larger machines taking up more and more miles of space and bringing in more and more intense energies to try to find a fleeting super fraction of a super fraction of a super fraction of a super second in order to find some kind of particle.

And some of them that have a sense of humor have decided the particle they're looking for is called a quark. Isn't that cute?

I say these quirky quarks or quarky quirks show us how sold they get on a word. Now, the minute you give a thing a name, you see, you bound your consciousness and you've imprisoned it.

And most people don't recognize this. So when we talk about the living soul of tarot, remember by living in Qabalah, we need to remind you over and over and over and over again that none of us know what living really is. We use a word and we think we know what life is.

Materialists say life has something to do with a body that performs functions to survive and this is developed mechanically whatever that means because they gave the word mechanically they think they'd said something but anybody who stops to think a second time knows that you couldn't have anything like mechanics unless there was a creative mind behind it could you imagine anything anything mechanical inventing itself.

Think about it for a moment. Anything mechanical. Yet they decide that all evolution is a sort of mechanical something, merely because they see certain steps follow other steps.

And naturally you're not here because you need to be convinced about the fact that life has nothing to do with mechanics. Mechanics. You already are sold on some spiritual or super normal, super physical idea that relates to life. The point is you're sold on it intellectually, but do you live it?

When you get upset about something, are you really being sold on it? For instance, what What things upset you? What things hold you in the patterned prisons?

What things do you decide are important? How much do you look down on someone who doesn't lift a finger properly with a cup of tea?

Or how much do you look down because they do lift it? That is, when you go reverse and decide to look down on anyone who has an education above 7th grade or 4th, 5th grade, whatever it may be. You know, these things, we have people who have a superiority complex and a need to not, who have no education just as well as those who have much education, or they think they do, because even the word education has been mistreated. And again, it's the same thing as giving something a name. You remember in Genesis it was said that the Lord God left to Adam the naming of the creatures?

And I wonder how often we've stopped to think about what this means. What do we mean by naming a creature?

Do you mean when you get a cat you might call it Charles? Or when you get a dog you might call it Penelope?

Or if you decide to have an unusual kind of pet like a fantail goldfish you might call it stardust you know you may give it a more poetic name but what does the name tell you when you give a thing a name you are really again putting it within a limitation of your consciousness which is all right provided you know you're doing it and within that limitation you're giving it qualities qualities now if I call somebody a fiend I'm giving him qualities and I've given him a name haven't I I've given him the name of a fiend you know because it isn't just the name we're called you know we call people names remember as children we'd say sticks and stones can break my bones and And then we get very haughty, but names can never hurt me. That's not true. They can.

When we are part of a society who react to names as though they were realities.

And so we all waste more energy.

I'd hate to tell you how much of your evolutionary energy we all waste.

Reacting to this very idea, the names, or the ideas that have developed as a result of names, like security. Now in our society, security means you do your best to take advantage of the other fellow legally if you feel you're honest, and illegally if you can get away with it.

Illegitimately and legally as long as you're not going to get put into jail. That's preferable. But if it was a large enough amount, you might play a little bit, you know? You might get courageous and decide, I'm a bold adventurer. You know, sometimes one nickel or a dime mightn't tempt us, but maybe a million or two million dollars might. And is it any different? It's a matter of what do we consider security.

It's a matter of reacting to names, qualities, what's important.

And so living so, basically, may have one meaning as against the interpretation given by this extraordinary genius of human consciousness, which is us.

You know, we have such a genius, it is just fantastic. I can well understand why all of our eastern brethren say this world is an illusion a delusion and a snare it isn't that the world is though it's that we have such a genius for giving things names for deciding characteristics for deciding what is good and what is bad you know like the cannibal who decides it's good to eat another man especially your enemy it makes you stronger but they're acting according to their good and bad they're such a genius in the human living spirit for rationalizing exactly what is being done and using the names or get the attributes to say this is good some people will go to excess in the most extraordinary ways and say for me this is good well probably it is but good in a way then that involves the idea of learning how to be more wise more discriminating more balanced etc but putting a fixated idea onto anything is a necessary thing of being human and yet being able to change this idea the minute we get new data the minute we get new ideas, the minute new realizations come, to be open to the new realizations, this is being young. Why haven't you noticed that old people find it harder to change than young people? And haven't you heard how the older you are when you get married, the harder it is for people to adapt to each other? Unless they're aware of it and work very hard at recognizing that they're more set in and their patterns.

Because you see, when we live alone, nobody is there to challenge our pattern.

When we want to eat, we eat. When we don't want to, we don't. When we feel sleepy, we go to bed. And if we're not sleepy, we'll stay up all night reading or watching TV or studying or fuming or fussing or rejoicing, depending on our mood.

But once you share a roof with another human being, you can't do that.

You have someone else to consider. That's why they say only children are so much more selfish. They haven't had to share.

And it takes a very highly evolved soul, a very highly evolved soul, to overcome the inevitable degree of selfishness that must come to an only child, even though it may not seem like that on the surface. And in the same way, living under the roof with another human being who has never had to think in every detail without just getting up and doing, requires a fantastic amount of direction of this vital soul.

That's why tarot becomes such a miracle.

Now think for a moment what is involved here.

Suppose I have lived alone for 30 years, God forbid.

All right.

I've lived alone. Now, what is that involved? I woke up when I wanted to, not when I had to, especially if I didn't have any children.

Now, of course, if you had children, you had to wake up for a time, but once they grew up, you didn't have to. You see it all depends on so many things and of course if you have little puppies or kittens you have to wake up too because they're like children any one thing in other words we have all kinds of children it's not just one kind of child all right but I didn't have to get up at a special time for special things perhaps unless I had to go to work to earn my living and then I had to get up at a certain time but at least I didn't have anybody else to think of suppose I had to get get up at a certain time and go to work so I got up and I had nobody to think of I could stumble around the house I could slop coffee over the sink or the floor if I wasn't I could leave uh if the toilet paper container was you might think this is unspiritual but everything is spiritual in the the eyes of God. If the container was empty, I wouldn't have to refill it. I could just put it on the sink and let it stay there until I came home, and it bothered me too much. You know, in other words, I didn't have to keep anything orderly until it annoyed me so much that I had to.

I didn't have to do it to keep somebody else from fussing at me about it. You see the difference?

And when it came to coming home I didn't have to come home if I wasn't in the mood if I was alone I could just go off and have dinner out and go to a movie or I could drop in on Tom, Dick, Harry, Jane, Jill or what have you you know, and I could sort of make the rounds or drop in at a bar or drop in for bowling depending on what my likes were or I could go to a meeting every night of the week in order to be with a whole bunch of people and tell myself how spiritual I am. You know, especially people who thought of spiritual things like flying saucers. You know, that's beyond the earth.

Anything that's beyond the earth.

I just did as I pleased. Of course, finally, when I did get home, I'd feel very lonely. And I'd say, gee, occasionally I would admit to myself this is empty I want a companion I might say I long for a companion I want a companion and I long and long and want and want and of course anything you long for and want you get it you get it but what you get also is not being able to get up and stumble around the house and slop coffee over the sink and floor and leave things around anywhere you have to start thinking of somebody else all relationship is a discipline of love and if you haven't thought of love as being a discipline it's only because you think of love as being the indulgent mother when you were say one week or one month old when you're one week and one month old it's okay to do as you please but not much beyond that that beyond that what you please has to be in consideration of those around you and has to be your joy not a discipline that you frown on but you see what happens though because people don't stop to think that you don't get anything for nothing there's only one thing you've gotten for nothing and that's being a part of God and that's not really for nothing because we don't know how God it came to be because God's always been from our point of view and will always will be and we are a part of it so we've always been not we haven't always been individualized as we are now but we've always been in some strange essence in the eternalness I mean that's but the very fact of always having been we're paying a price for it in having to learn that is if you think it's bad to pay a price you know I like paying my taxes I bet you don't I think how fortunate I am see we're talking about paying a price I think how fortunate I am to be in a society lots of things wrong with it I don't think America's a hundred percent what is but compared to the rest of the world on the whole how fortunate I am to be in an area where I have more freedom than I could just about anyplace else in the world on the whole maybe there are few other places similar, like some of the British democracies. You know, they're similar to us. We're brothers and sisters there, and then some of the Scandinavian countries, and there are others. But on the whole, just as a general principle, think of the privilege of being able to be in a society where when we drink water, we don't have to worry about dying of typhoid or some other kind of horrible disease because the water is purified for us. We can get out. Our world is smaller.

We don't have to stay within a periphery of 10 miles. And then, you know, if we go to visit somebody 20 miles away, it's a whole day's affair of an outing, which is lovely.

But our world is larger. We get in our car and we push off. We push off, that is, if if we don't go during work hours, going and coming from work on our freeways in L.A. But we can get in our car, we can go miles and miles and miles away in just almost no time at all. The shrinkage of space, the shrinkage of time has been taking place.

And so we have a larger area of expression geographically within a more limited time sense. So we accept invitations for dinner all over the place that other people couldn't have done at all very few years ago and they still can't in most of the world you know someone lives two hours from us they say come on and have dinner with us such and such a time we say sure and we hop in our car and we go and come back all in one day and enjoy the dinner don't we now you know that that would would have to be a whole day's outing, in fact a two-day outing, probably a whole weekend at a different time. So we have an intermingling of people now, but what does it cost us? We should not think that the cost is something we should fuss about, because, you know, if you fuss about paying your taxes, it's a very, you know, your subconsciousness might solve it very readily, get you in an income bracket where you don't have to pay any taxes at all. How would you like that? You wouldn't. Why don't you think of that next time you fuss? You have roads that you drive on. You have a domicile that's quite charming as against most domiciles in the world, haven't you? Even if you rent it, it's charming because after all your rent money still pays the taxes on that.

Whoever owns it is paying taxes on it probably getting poorer than you are renting it incidentally so you know one way or the other it isn't that intense a matter but the thing is to pay our share of the sanitation of the conveniences you know which is a social thing we should stop fussing and in the same way back to the idea that if I've lived alone I don't have to think of other people very much on the job I have to be careful if I think somebody else is a you know what not to say it if that you know what has an in with the boss and things like that if that's the type I am but on the whole having companionship costs something what it costs is enough love thoughtfulness and do you buy it no you evolve it do you have it automatically no you grow it and you don't grow it in one incarnation either each incarnation brings you a certain capacity for it but most of us don't even remotely build our capacity in that direction in other words we We use very little of the money we've got in the bank, spiritually speaking, not materially.

We hoard it and then we lose it. It's pretty much like the stories told by Jesus, you know, about burying the money in the ground. What does it profit? Nothing. And too many of us do that with our living powers, our very living powers.

Now, living with another person, then, when we have lived alone for a long time, involves so many, many things.

We can't just eat when we're in the mood or overeat when we're in the mood.

Although the overeating we might still be able to take care of if we want to. But there are certain periods we have to be considering someone else's desires. And if we don't like it, then we have no right to the companionship we long for with it, have we now?

Because companionship really means what we are longing for is someone to be thoughtful of us and for us to have someone towards whom we want to be thoughtful.

Isn't that so?

To be able to feel we are making life richer, sweeter, kinder, easier instead of what most of us usually do we hit each other on the head saying you don't appreciate me enough whack you don't appreciate me enough slash isn't it and we brewed and brewed in and inside ourselves and we build up such emotions it is just tragic really we build negatives instead of being grateful for the positives and building them in our nature and the living soul they in relation to the acid area of the tree of life which you'll see if you're not familiar with it you can turn around and look at it there I don't want to open the curtains the violet circle just before manifestation it's the patterns that manifest in our material physical physical environment once we reincarnate. These are the patterns, then, that make our lives what they are, that bring us our joys and our sorrows, that give us our problems without which we'd be bored, as you surely know, and give us our fulfillments, which are marvelous, but we cannot rest in them. We have to go on to the next step and the next and the next. Now then, the other part of living soul, though, has to do with the Divine Mother, that which we chanted when we chanted Elohim. Now Elohim, the Divine Mother, is also called the Divine Soul in Qabalah, and it is the Divine Soul that every one of us have as our spark of eternal individuality.

Some of us have developed it more than others some of us have a greater capacity than others in this particular incarnation some of us are growing in large capacities some of us are shrinking our capacities temporarily in relation to the ability to experience and express that divine soul in us now the divine soul is that portion of us which is eternal the vital soul is the drive and the drive that reacts automatically that's why in Qabalah it's also called the automatic intelligence or consciousness but the divine soul is that in us which is the eternal evolution that which we have gained for eternity and that which will drive us through eternity into higher and higher and enlarged and ever more enlarged capacities for loving being doing expressing in and through the very thing I mentioned at the beginning of the talk the idea of discipline and disciplines remember are not something we should moan about that if we're moaning about disciplines what we want to be is the one week or one month old infant who doesn't need it and even that infant has plenty of disciplines you know from just swimming around in the mother's womb with such ease and happiness has to breathe for itself learn how to eat you know it has all kinds of functions it must do for its own vehicle that it did not have to do in the mother's womb the mother's womb took care of all of it with the mother's consciousness within the combination of divine soul and automatic soul but the assuming of responsibilities for ourselves and others has to do with growing up spiritually and these responsibilities do not weigh heavily on the soul they are a privilege and anyone who lives without the privilege the true privilege of serving loved ones isn't really living at all it's a zombie existence that's like a half-death and too many human beings walk around on this planet in exactly that state a half-death lots of people think they're spiritual aspirants but what is a spiritual aspirant a true spiritual aspirant doesn't go marching off to mountaintops or isolations how are you going to serve say well I need to evolve myself first whatever Whatever evolution we've got, there are those less evolved than we are, aren't there?

And so whatever we've got, we have to serve those who need us. I remember when Paul Foster Case dropped his physical vehicle. I was outraged. I bawled God out like I doubt anybody has ever scolded him before. Fortunately, he's too big to care, you know. Now look, kidding the deity is part of being able to feel at one with life. So I'd like to see more of a smile and chuckle on your faces. Because if you think we must be serious and frown in relation to God, it's pretty to me. Pretty much like the relationship certain very psychologically ill children have in relation to their parents. And if deity is our divine parent I think we should be able to kid deity because deity certainly kids us plenty and let's relax in this relationship and realize that whatever mistakes we're making is our children make deity loves us as we continue to love our children since we're human souls and living souls in fact any soul haven't you noticed how a puppy is loved by its mama dog and how a kitten is loved by its mama cat and how a little calf is loved by its mama cow now are we less and just as jesus said is our divine father less let's feel relaxed enough so if our children jump up and down and point at us especially in adolescence and say you're a freak let's chuckle and let's feel that we can be on intimate terms with the one divine creator in this way now then the point I'm trying to get over basically is the fact that when we are in a relaxed state of working with an at-one-ment with the divine creator, we are also in more of a receptive mood for learning what it is to be in a state of service, and we are able to recognize more fully what it is to have true meaningfulness in life.

When I first started to study occultism, I was tremendously sold by the Buddhist point of view. I was very young, remember, which said life is pain, life is hell. Let's get the hell out of it. That's the basic idea.

You're caught in a net and in a trap.

Escape.

That's the idea.

And boy, that just struck me as hunky-dory. I was out for it 100%. So I went to work, and God help me, when I go to work, I work well.

And I can concentrate.

In fact, I concentrate too well. When anything I get interested in, nothing else exists. One-pointed. So I started to concentrate on this idea. I was all for it. If that was the only way to get out, because, of course, I was quite horrified to discover discover that it is likely that you can't take an overdose of sleeping capsules and get out of it. I'd always felt pretty brave about it all. It's too much for me. I'll just go out with sleeping capsules. And all of a sudden I discovered you can't really get out that way because there's no way to get out. And I felt that that was a mean trick.

I wasn't at all pleased with God, the Creative Spirit, or anything. I was very, very young.

And I figured okay mean trick or not I still have to feel that I'm able to get out of it and so the Buddhist point of view appealed to me for that reason I was a very unhappy young lady not really a young lady yet I was more of a child but let's call it that and I read away I bet you I read every Buddhist book there was in the whole Los Angeles library you'd be amazed how many there there are, and I meditated on it day and night and night and day. This is all I kept hammering on from within myself. And then I had an experience, and it just blew all that work up to nothing.

My own higher soul wasn't going to buy it. Isn't that fortunate? Fortunate for me and for all of us, truly. Because my own higher soul gave me an experience. When I say my own, it's also your higher soul it is bina it is the divine soul of us all it's just that I have been able to have instant and immediate contact through many points of my life all through my childhood then lost and then since then since that experience almost at will not every time let's say almost every time which I is good enough at the moment I'll try to work it into something better as time goes on now the experience I had that made me realize what a mistake I was making was the experience that made me recognize the difference between the vital soul the automatic pattern soul and the divine soul and this difference truly was so startling that no one talk could even remotely give it to you. It had to do basically with that portion of the drive that exists in everything that lives including a leaf, the leaf of a tree, the blade, a blade of grass as against that complex type of being that is a creature and then the more highly complex types of being that are the human creatures. Now Now you remember our beloved Sor Helen, Reverend Helen Owen, read to us from the Bible that little portion where it says, and thou hast made him but little lower than the angels.

You recall that? Well, here is the truth of the matter. The experience I had actually showed that though at this stage of evolution we are but little lower than the angels, in capacity we have more than the angels because you see the angels are not individualized we have gone through the hells you and I every one of us have gone through the hells through infinite numbers of reincarnations in order to develop the disciplines of being individualized souls as individualized souls we have a an ability for responsibility for self-control we have a capacity a true capacity for gaining ecstasy and joy out of giving instead of the infantile ecstasy and joy of just wanting to get. Any getting that we get, we have the capacity to be happy for the sake of the giver rather than because of what we got. Do you see the difference?

To give the other the privilege of giving rather than us having the ecstasy of receiving. But the ecstasy of receiving always being in that area of knowing God gives me through you God loves me through you God nurtures me through you God protects me through you and so on you see the difference to receive then from that point of view as against the infantile points of view has to do with the the ability to have the ecstasy and the joy and the fulfillment in a need to give. And this need to give has to do with developing that discipline, which is not a sad thing, it is an ecstatic thing, that discipline that instantly thinks of the other person first, the mother sleeping, hears the cry of the child, and just out by this by standing next to that child before her she's fully awake so the person who loves another person thinks of that person's welfare first before you think of your own and of course if you have earned it that other will think of you first and that way everything will be fine because if you the people who love you think of you first and then if you think of them first and we're all taken care of you see whereas if we have to think of ourselves we're cornering ourselves in in this narrower smaller field which is not going to bring the fulfillment long for a million dollars you may have joy for an hour a day maybe a month and after that you'll never know who likes you you'll figure they're after my money not me and you'll have to have suspicion and so on long for anything long for fame you'll say it isn't me they want they like the fact that I'm in the public eye long for anything enough it'll be fulfilled maybe not in this incarnation but it will be fulfilled in your higher soul it isn't there isn't that much difference and you'll find that everything turns to dust and ashes eventually no desire gets it's lost until you fulfill it anyway so you might as well do a little meditating on what to desire and really mean it because you you know you get your fulfillments but you know after all it's about time we woke up and started to get fulfilled in a proper way now then the living soul of tarot is the way to become aware of where our desires are going.

It is the way to become familiar with the methods of change. And these methods of change are outlined in the lessons you receive through the mail.

And you get enlargements in the work you receive here in the temple, on Sunday mornings, in the Thursday night classes, in the wonderful Praneas work that our beloved Reverend Eugene Amard guides, and he takes two or three Sundays a month here in Sunday morning work too, remember, and you have the available methods, but to want to escape like I did, you know, it's good to have wanted to do everything nonsensical in order to discover how nonsensical it was, and I don't regret one nonsense I ever felt or thought or did because it helps me to understand what to help guard you against if you want to be guarded in that way. If not, well, you'll make your mistakes and then you'll come back and we'll put our arms around each other and say, good, we got that behind us. But maybe all you need is a reminder and don't have to go through that nonsense.

I hope you don't have to. I don't want you to go through unnecessary pain and I know you don't want to either. So please bear in mind that with the work of tarot, which gives you this beat, beat, beat, beat of pictorial images that are being worked upon all over the world and have been worked upon for many, many a long century, we have a method in and through which we can keep washing out all this selfish, self-centered, just doing as we please and developing that ecstasy of thinking of our loved ones at home and if we have the capacity the larger loved ones do you realize that if you have ability you owe it to others to use it otherwise you're cheating yourself others and god if you're locking yourselves away way. You are cheating yourself, others, and God, if you have the capacity to serve in special ways, and you are therefore failing very vital tests, because nobody stops being tested ever. The masters of wisdom are tested consistently. Those who've achieved levels, those you would call gods, are tested every step has tests every step from the so-called barbarian savage right to the most highest angel every level has tests and it's up to us to realize that what these tests involve are the abilities to use the patterns the ability is not to get lost in giving names that are nonsensical like deciding that a cat is dangerous have you ever petted a cat have you ever had it on your lap and felt the warmth of its body have you listened to it singing to you the crooning melody of the lullaby of God and it's purr some of you some people hate cats they haven't been at one with them or dogs some people hate dogs have you ever felt the warmth of a dog coming right through your clothes or on your skin the living the living soul to experience the living soul of other creatures and this includes all creatures the living soul of the Sun of the wind of the star of the tree of the breeze of the breath of everyone who speaks to you you better gargle with whatever they advise in TV though one of the best things for the breath incidentally because I know that somebody is a little worried clove chew a bit of clove it's very freshening and also see to your proper for drinking more water and elimination.

And I think you'll be amazed. Oh, and more kind of like steam baths, sauna baths. And you'll be amazed at the change. It'll take about three months if you do this. Okay. Somebody was sending me this question, getting worried. Okay.

Now, I want to finish this morning's talk then, leaving you with a few basic ideas.

Mainly this if you work consistently with the tarot now some of you who are intellectually inclined incidentally, this is a parenthesis might say but why should medieval pictures and medieval dress do anything this is much below my high intellectual standards I might say you better eat some humble bread brother because the medieval dress has been deliberately retained in order to help separate the work from the immediate experiences. If there were modern dress, and the tarot keys could be redone in modern dress, if that were done, they would lose the very thing that they can do now. Putting modern dress on these keys, you know, I know those of you who are artistic sort of wince a little at some of them. So do I, incidentally, sometimes. I used to do it worse. Now I kind of love the very medieval quality because I recognize it's a device you know you don't just think that this is the beginning and end of all life it's a device to bring you to a state of consciousness and that's the beauty and glory of it because you can use it as a device now this device works because it helps you to separate your attention from your everyday problems keeping its medieval dress. And yet it has the pose and the images which have to do with the different states of consciousness that each of these Tarot keys express, and the lessons that are given on them that help give you the meditations. And along with that, by looking at them in the way you're taught to meditate, it helps to bring you in contact with the level of consciousness of these people who use them like the masters myself the other adepts and the rest of the BOTA members and the graduated series and levels that we have them it therefore gives you a way of receiving the clear sparkling living waters and as a device it is unequaled surely you're familiar with the fact that it has been spoken of more highly than almost any other method by very well-known occult authorities such as manly hall judge troward pike and many others so don't think for one moment that because they are just a bunch of medieval pictures they have no meaning they have great meaning and the medieval dress is important to help separate you from the now in order to help you have something with which to transmute your consciousness anything that transfers your attention away from the this instant is a great aid you see and keeping that kind of garb does it now then bearing in mind for today that our great need is to be able to tie up within our own consciousness this automatic vital soul part of us with the divine soul the forever eternal living with the energy living is another way of putting it what we need to do is to start watching but not only watching practicing watching one phase of our thinking and feeling and reacting then practicing whatever is the positive sense in and through the tarot symbols and as I said you receive the detailed instruction through the lessons that come to you through the mails if you start doing that you start discovering that for example if you had difficulty concentrating you learn more and more you be you learn to concentrate if you had difficulty deciding what is right and what is wrong in any given situation you know don't we send ourselves through hell that way so often and regularly you discover that it becomes much easier to decide what's right and wrong when we stop using it our questions in that way but are able to switch over to the various tarot keys concerned with these ideas and then finally end up with the principles that are this in what manner do I serve the most the best isn't that an easy way to solve a problem in what manner do I serve the most the best now if I'm unprepared to serve it means I've got to prepare myself but there are some people would never say they're prepared I was one of them you know I was sure dr. Case was was going to go on staying in his physical body indefinitely.

I knew that I was to become the Supreme Chief of our Order for this planet. I mean, this was made obvious to me, much to my amazement and surprise.

I couldn't understand why, but then when it was pointed out to me that they picked the best they can get, I figured, well, this is a poor, unhappy, poor planet. You know, that's not too much to say for me. It just has to say with the poor condition of the planet. So I was a little sad for the planet, but that was that. You know, if I was the best they could find, okay. But then I was so sure that certainly this being the case, Dr. Case wasn't going to be removed from his physical vehicle until I was spiritually prepared. So I went prancing around. I'd get a little disturbed, and I'd get little intuitional warnings and all that, but I refused to accept them. And I said, be gone, dark forces. And I banished them off with pentagrams and crosses and lights and all sorts of things, and they were gone. I refused to accept them.

You know, after all, I'm not spiritually prepared. But you know, the higher soul sometimes thinks a little differently than we do. And so besides my begoning all kinds of things, Dr. Case was taken. And so after having my good little old quarrel with the Lord of Life and the archangels and whatever else I could find and getting outraged. I said, now, how? I would have almost said, how the hell, except you can't in spiritual work. You have to say, how the heaven. Do you expect me to take care of this kind of work now? I'm not prepared.

I'm too young, and I'm not developed enough.

But there I was, so I had to do it. You see, God sometimes thinks we have more than others. And after a while, I realized, well, from my point of view, I was never going to be developed enough. I'm not developed enough now. But God has a different idea. It's a matter of levels and grades, you see. So I was put to work in 1954 to take the full responsibility. Before that I'd been sharing it with Dr. Case. And I want to point out to many of you that each of us has a certain mission, a certain service, and to say well let's wait till this gets cleared away or that gets cleared away, or first I want to become secure in this thing or that thing, is a beautiful way to alibi yourself out just like I had done. Oh I think I had a better excuse to alibi ourselves out of doing for others what they're not able to yet. If we're in eighth grade we know more than sixth graders and if we're in 12th grade we know more than 10th graders and this is the point bear that in mind and remember that if you work with the Tarot you will develop as much as you've got a little more fully and stop avoiding your responsibilities because you'll have more fulfillment by fulfilling them with both your immediate personal loved ones as well as your larger family which is all humanity. A word to the wise? This was meant for quite a few here, incidentally.

I think that's enough for the talk for this morning.
