Now, the title being Understanding the Occult Meaning of Will.

This brings many problems to us when we try to explain to you, who have not been studying the lessons at home very particularly, those who are not members on the daily discipline of lessons, it makes it very difficult for us to explain to you what the true mystery school teaching is in relation to will.

Because all of us have been subjected, in fact all of us have had a barrage of conditionings which have told us, in effect, the thing that separates man from all others is his free will. We have a kind of Allah-Allah worship. We bow down to our own free will and to the free will of everybody else, that is, everyone who is expressing the Lord of life in and through a human body.

And because we have such a strong conditioned process, and because human consciousness is in that stage of evolution where in order to develop its unique individuality it has the, shall we say, illusion of separateness in its self-consciousness, the idea of free will has come to mean something synonymous with what word would you use to try to get the idea across of just doing what pleases us as read to you from the book of tokens you You know, there are those who come across the principle of the unity of life and the fact that only one pattern exists in all the universe, who, when being bothered by the idea of will, will say, well, in that case, if there's a pattern, everyone is really an automaton. And if everyone is really an automaton no one can help what he or she does and that makes for the most beautiful rationalization for just doing whatever the lower levels of our own consciousness push us towards in other words it's like being in a river where we let the current take us where it wants to instead of going in for a bit of swimming so that despite the current we can manage because of our excellent swimming abilities to get across to the other side of this river.

I remember this well because when I was something like 12 years old my two sisters who had had swimming instructions and I we decided to go swimming in New York it was very very hot day and I knew I could swim I knew this very well I'd been in the ocean with a tube around me and I did beautifully you see and after all if you can float with a tube and managed to get from here to there despite all those splashing waves, Rockaway Beach is a pretty rough ocean in the New York area, I knew I could swim. I knew it perfectly. And so when my sisters decided let's take a swim, and I was asked, can you swim? I got very insulted. I said, certainly I can swim. You know, what a question, treating me like a moron. And so we put bathing suits on under our dresses. We took ourselves off to the East River, and we got to a jumping-off place on the wharf and took off our dresses, and then we jumped.

And my two sisters did beautifully, and my supreme confidence kept me floating.

You know, when you're sure you can swim, you're relaxed enough not to sink. The only trouble was there was a current and I was being pulled out to the center of the river it's pretty big river you know after all great steamships can go through this river has to be big deep so I started to get pulled out and meanwhile some young lads start to shout at me saying what can you swim I got very insulted even though I was being pulled into the middle of the ocean. I said, certainly I can swim. Well, I'm splashing madly and I couldn't understand why I'm getting nowhere. And I was getting nowhere fast. I can't begin to tell you the amount of energy I was using. Infinitely more than I ever had to use in Rockaway Beach. And this was calm. This was such a nice, calm bit of water. If you look on Tarakee number seven, you'll see a river behind that. You know, I'm not just bringing you into my private life for nothing. So when I bring you into my private life, I have a reason. See that river? We have a pretty strong driver there with armor on. I'm glad I didn't have that kind of armor. If we want to become literal, I really would have sunk. But the armor I had was the armor of my supreme confidence. In other words, my faith.

In my ability to swim. You know, it was a greatest shock to me to discover my wild motions, and I made plenty of noise, you know, and splashings with it. Got me absolutely nowhere, except a bit out of breath. Well, finally, after much bickering back and forth from the wharf, several boys jumped in to save me. They assured me I was going to drop dead down underneath the river if I wasn't saved and it started to look to me like they might be right because sooner or later you get tired you know managing to stay on top my sisters had disappeared I told them in an insulted manner I can swim so of course they were off swimming probably two three four blocks the way around the wharf in fact that's where they had been and meanwhile there I was being pulled towards the middle. I was assured that I was going to be knocked in the jaw if I fought.

One of the boys said, I don't know whether we ought to try to save you. A lot of people get drowned. You'll get hysterical and you'll grab us and you'll drag us down. This has happened. And if you're dumb enough to jump in there when you can't swim, how can we trust you not to drown us. We're trying to save you. Well, we had to make bargains and I think they were very fine, brave lads. They trusted my word, but after all, how did they know I wouldn't get hysterical?

Because I could have gotten hysterical and I could have done exactly what they were afraid I was going to do. They made me promise I would absolutely relax and act like I was dead.

Which I didn't appreciate, but the idea was to let them do the saving. They said, because if you don't, if you fight, you see, you'll drag us all down and we'll all drown.

Well, I was in a spot. I had to agree. You know, when you're cornered, you have to make a compromise and so my dignity had to give way at this point in other words I compromised I agreed to act like I had no will of my own but their will was my will but you thought I forgot we were going to talk about well I was going to to relax my will to them temporarily.

So they jumped in. There were about four of them. And first they swam round and round very suspiciously. And finally they had two waiting to come in and suck me in the jaw if I started to get hysterical, while a third sneaked up from behind to grab a strap from the bathing suit and to see how I reacted. Did well when he grabbed the strap I said you got me by the strap he said all right are you just going to let me pull you now or are you going to turn around try to grab me I said why should I grab you I I'm held he said gee you have brains well this made me feel good because nobody else had ever given me credit for brains including myself at any rate they pulled me out of the river and certainly I by the time they pulled me out I was about a third of the way due to the current the pull of the current I was the third of the way towards the middle of this river and I would have drowned you know fools step in where angels fear to tread but on the other hand a certain kind of faith at least keeps you from sinking. Now I had enough faith to stay on top even though I'd never floated without a one of those tubes around me before but it hadn't occurred to me that it was necessary that I have the tube in order to float so I had enough faith to float and then I had enough faith in these boys to do what they told me to do. In other words, I gave up my drive, my will, to them temporarily. Now, I'm not advising you to give up, especially you girls, to give up your will to boys in that manner. But there's a principle involved here that we need to understand, or we we will not understand the real occult secret behind will.

The principle being that we can have the most supreme confidence, and yet anyone who says faith will take care of everything.

Now here in this temple, I'm going to shock you by saying it isn't necessarily so. It takes care of bringing you help. But we have to evolve to the point where we recognize this help and where we cooperate with it. In other words, we have to know the difference between our personalized drives, which become personalized will drives, and that kind of will which has and contains the larger picture. And this is what Jesus certainly meant when he said, I have no will save the will of the Father who sent me. Now how many of us can say that? Well, we could say it with our mouths. But how many of us can understand what was meant? You see, our problem basically is that because we are all within an area of the evolution of humanity, in which in order to become more and more conscious, more and more effective as a center of consciousness, we have also, along with this, experienced the shadow of this consciousness.

Because everything that brings consciousness has its opposite with it. Otherwise how could we be conscious at all in the states of samadhi which are a second home to me when I want to rest a little bit just like the embryo enjoys the mother's womb no problems this state of samadhi certainly isn't something that one that I would recommend one go into to stay, but I have found it's a very fine place for a little relaxed refreshment for an hour or two, and it has been my good fortune to be able to utilize this. Now in this particular state, awareness is a very different thing than it is while we are in what is called this hedge of protection as read to you from the book of tokens because in that state that state of beginningless endless I we are unaware that there is anything else at all it's beginningless endless I there is no other I there's no such thing as as light or dark. There's no such thing as thou as against me or I as against something else. Everything is I. And it's a beginningless, endless, rapturous, secure, blissful state, restful, beyond description. Certainly it is nurturing and nourishing. However, is this the thing we are working for or is this what we have come from? There is a question and most people do not seem to understand that we are always within this womb of God that is the Divine, the Most High, And if we are not aware of it, it's mainly because we have concentrated our attention, which has been and is a necessity, we have concentrated our attention into that area of the boundaries, the boundaries which keep us safe in one way, that is, make us think we're safe.

But in another way these very boundaries have given us the illusion that we are something separate from someone else and here is where the whole idea of sin the whole idea of evil the whole idea of pain and the whole idea of punishment has come it's pretty much like saying that the child who is unable to do the work of an adult is evil it's pretty much like saying that the infant newly born should be able to conduct itself like the child that has learned how to climb up a rope or up a house or something give its parent to nervous breakdown that way instead of in whatever way the parent thinking in terms of separateness also now separateness is something we all experience this we we agreed to but how real is this separateness now our whole problem in relation to will and understanding will will, is involved in the problem of accepting the idea that every center of life and every center of consciousness is separate from other centers of life and other centers of consciousness.

Because we have accepted that idea, we have all come to act in terms of what we have accepted. In other words, we have developed a faith in our separateness.

You know, I have heard many people say, I have no faith.

And believe me, this is the most utter nonsense in the world. Everybody's got faith in something. Some people have faith in the reality of evil.

I imagine lots of people here have. How many raise your hand hi well don't be afraid real high real real high all right well now you go back and you go to Samadhi afterwards some people tune in to my vibrations to go to Samadhi too soon you know there's a time to be born and a time to be born on the other plane there's a time to pay attention and time and the time to withdraw into the assimilation.

Now, I was asking how many people here have the absolute conviction, I'll put it in different words, that a power of evil exists that is real and powerful and works against the power of God. Raise your hands high. Now very high, don't be afraid. Now how many people do not believe this? Raise your hands very high. Yeah. How many people don't know? Relative. Naturally it's relative. But we all have our our relative ideas about what is relative.

That is black, that is white. That's what I mean by relative. Relative. Well, that's what gives us consciousness, the ability to see.

The complete absorption of color, which we call one thing, and the complete projection of color, which we call another.

And so we think they are different things, yet black and white are not different. We experience them in a different manner because of our specialized senses at the moment. And any of you who'd think not, you wait until you're through with the Color and Sound course we're giving and you'll see it as clearly as I do and in more ways than that. Now, this idea of of evil is completely related to the idea of will, that is what we consider will is or is not.

Now who amongst us can say that we have not felt guilty because we have failed or have not had enough will to do something we thought we should. We all have. And if we haven't, we might be psychopathic personalities and we need to develop a little guilt. Because you see, to be unbalanced in any direction is not good. Not that we favor guilt. You know, all of our work here is to help you overcome guilt, to transmute it into positive force. Nevertheless, everything serves its purpose for our growth and evolution at the time of need. But when we don't need it anymore, it keeps us from evolving. We hang on, then to self ideas of self-drive, self-power, and self-importance. We hang on to the idea that everybody who does anything does it from a certain spirit. It and so we decide that everybody who say steals is evil and everybody who doesn't steal is good at least in that area that everybody who tells the truth is good and everybody who tells a lie is evil we get the idea that everybody who is compassionate is good and everybody who lacks compassion is evil. But compassionate towards who? Or towards what? Some people get compassionate towards a carrot. And I know someone dear to me says, well at least the carrot doesn't fight me. Which is a good answer. There are relative levels of our ability to be aware of the degree of pain that any particular center of life can have.

So we have our different ideas and we proceed to sit in judgment upon, we proceed to condemn. Now anybody who is sure that a power of evil exists and is strong that it is a real thing also inevitably must sit in judgment upon fellow man and in essence is sitting in judgment on God. If you're upset I'm sorry my darlings. If you come come here to hear ideas that will shake your mind, shake your hearts, make you go and meditate, study your own inner thinking and feeling and others. If you want to learn what reality is, you must be willing to listen to a new idea. It doesn't mean you must accept it. To listen to it and test it out long enough to discover the truth. Anyone who's determined that evil is a power in itself is therefore a condemnatory human being.

Judging others, judging others, judging self, condemning self and fellow man, and such a state of consciousness is about as hellish as one could want to find. And then because one sees this as evil and because one has such faith, now this is faith and the same people will often say I have no faith. They have faith, they have faith in evil. They have faith and evil and they see it. Wherever they go they'll find it. Someone very dear to me took a trip across Mexico with somebody else very dear to me once and all one of this pair could see is how poor everybody is and what hovels they lived in. And so the whole trip was one of clicking of the tongue and a sorrow at the terrible lack of development and evolution, the evils of the social system there and the economics. The other one, oh this person could see, was the beauty of the sunset and the quaintness of the houses and the huts and all the other beauties and the concentration was on the opposite end. Now both of these these people were utterly unbalanced.

And if they've continued.

The consciousness sees what it hunts for.

And this is the whole principle of will.

The consciousness will extract from the total universe, which is God and the one life, that which is in harmony with itself.

And if it sees nothing but cruelty if it sees nothing but evil that's what it's apparently in harmony with whatever we put our attention to is what we build whatever we concentrate upon we make strong and we can shout from now till whatever doomsday may may mean, there's no such thing really, because even if this world came to an end, we'll be here. Maybe not on the physical plane of this planet, but we'll be around. Consciousness is eternal.

All consciousness is eternal, even in the blade of grass, even though the blade of grass doesn't try to bite back. But all consciousness is eternal, and this eternal consciousness cannot be destroyed though it can certainly lose its temporary abode of the conditioned reactions and misinterpretation of the narrow point of view.

Realize then that in a universe which is God, now would you say that there's a devil or Satan? Take a look at Key 15. There's the devil.

Isn't he cute?

Terrible. Look at these shameless creatures that haven't got clothes on.

You know, you can find something about everything. Then you can take a look at Key 17 and say, look at that shameless woman.

She should be clothed, couldn't you?

Or you could take a look at any one of the Tarot keys.

You could take a look at Key 16 and say, wow, isn't that marvelous? Look, they're going to be smashed.

How's that for a good cause? Well, you can. Depends on how you're going to interpret it. It depends on what you're going to extract from the condition.

So we incarnate into a body which is what? It is a privileged kind of growth process. The body locks away extraneous things. In other words, the whole chemistry of the brain and the body locks away the totality of the universe from the consciousness because it couldn't bear it anyway. As I mentioned in the color and sound course, you stay in a super black room and then walk out in the sunlight, you'll be blind.

You can't see any details. There's just light.

And you might call it samadhi and say samadhi has no details in it. But is that true? Or is it just that the consciousness wasn't able to perceive the whole picture because it has not grown to that level as yet which brings us then to the next important point that has to do with will and that next important point is this that our desires are what make our will and our will is the kind of will which is exactly in harmony with our level of growth. Now if you will to kill, that's your level of growth. If you will the planet to be dissolved, that's how much you really love evolution and God and life and self because it always starts with self. I I once wanted the all of life to be dissolved when I went through about a three and a half year atheistic phase Having studied everything. I thought everything at that time, you know when you're young how you know it all Marvelous state to be in very very depressing when you discover That All of these things you knew Aren't exactly so you know when from a state of all-knowing you start recognizing that you're as ignorant as the most ignorant of all.

It's most depressing. It's a much happier state to know it all. Nevertheless, nevertheless, if we will look into history, we will see that the greatest saints have said, along with Jesus, each in their own way, Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

Come, learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart.

My yoke is easy.

My burden is light. Something like that. I'm paraphrasing, but it's almost exactly that.

And everyone who has evolved to the point of seeing the larger picture has enough humility this is being meek and lowly of heart has enough humility to realize that the kind of consciousness that can hurl galaxies and universes out into space the kind of consciousness that can can take out of its own substance and fashion within its own womb centers of livingness from the first microbe. See, I'm not calling you a microbe, mind you.

A gathering of microbes.

Is that wrong, though, to be a microbe or a gathering of microbes?

But that kind of consciousness that takes out of its own essence and substance grows itself into more and more complex groups of cooperative cells of consciousness, centers of awareness.

Don't you think that whatever things might look like to the limited, separated self-consciousness of man, that true insight could show us that anything this vast has also, along with the vastness indicated for anyone who has eyes to see, that the entire evolutionary process is a benevolent growth process, and that nothing is being tortured outside.

Remember from the Book of Tokens, Thy sorrows pierce my heart.

Thy tears course down my cheeks.

Now, are we really so spiritual? When we can with self smug sense of nonsense no like a delusion of the tyrannical kind of Hitler consciousness installing consciousness can we sit on on our pinnacle and look out and say, oh, those evil ones, those evil ones, those evil ones, I'm so good, I'm so kind, I'm so pure, those evil ones.

And evil is ruling the world and all things are evil.

Can't we see, those of us who are occultists, that if this is what we're looking for, like extracting poverty and being unable to see beauty, or extracting only beauty and being unable to see that poverty needs our help in order to bring it to understand its beauty too. If we're within any extreme, can't we see if we're going to sit back and blame everything on outsideness that whatever it is that we're looking at and extracting with our consciousness from the total whole, that's what we're building?

You see it comes right back to us at all times you don't like evil why focus on it then do you believe that what you focus on you build do you believe that everyone here knows this you wouldn't be in an occult temple you wouldn't be in a metaphysical temple of god if you didn't realize this deep in your soul consciousness builds and what our consciousness concentrates on is what is really willing because will is want it is the driving power of the universe that's what will is when you care enough about anything you have that extra power will is power the whole universe is power what I concentrate on that's where my power will go you take this glass and you you let the Sun shine through it on a paper but what do you do you concentrate the heat of the Sun and the paper will burn you take your consciousness and you concentrate it on a point of your body and your body will burn at least it'll seem like that to the consciousness you take your consciousness and you keep concentrating it on any of the physical areas you're just concentrating on physical things you can scream from now till doomsday I have no faith you have plenty of faith you have faith in something horrible being found you keep hunting and hunting till you find it consciousness is cannot lack faith what we have to realize is what are we going to feed our divine will into because will is divine no matter what it's being used for have you got a black eye that reminds me of the delightful story dr case told we had a beloved frotter who was very high in our inner order I hope those of you who aren't there yet will be preparing yourselves for it especially when I show you this marvelous example you'll see we're quite human even in the inner order. And he was invited to give a talk, and his talk was being given on brotherhood, peace and brotherhood.

So on his way to give the lecture, he's driving the car, and something always happened to him behind the wheel of a car, and everyone became an SOB. You've heard about this, you know. I don't know, I'm sure you wouldn't do this, but it's...

Anyway, he was going through Pasadena on his way, and all of a sudden one of those you-know-whats did something or other, and so there were a few words, he stuck either head out the window, then they stopped and got out, had a good free-for-all, he got a black eye.

This was, I was very high up in our inner order. Very beautiful man, believe me. There he was, he was almost late for his appointment, so he arrived, gave his talk on peace and brotherhood with a black eye. Thank you, honey. Maybe God helped you to do something to get the black ice I'd remember to tell that story. Isn't that cute? And this was a very adorable human being, a very saintly soul, but you know, we all have our areas of stirrings where we forget ourselves and wherever, the more developed we become, the more highly evolved we are, the the more power we put into those portions of us that are still a little wobbly on this side of separatism.

And, of course, this is right, that this should be so, because the repercussions come faster.

Now, and then, in other words, if we're just mildly miserable, we're not going to do much. We're going to sit around and whine and fuss and complain. Plane. But when we get miserable enough, we get desperate enough to do something about it. That's why it's excellent that the repercussions should come more rapidly. And don't sit in judgment on people in occultism if their troubles are a little worse than other people's. This is good. Faster repercussions, faster recognition, Ignition, faster desperation to go to work with the will. And the will will not go to work on transmuting anything within us until we have suffered enough.

The whole story of the crucifixion shows this.

And you'll say, well, what kind of a God, there we go right back to that idea, what kind of a God is there or can there be that would create evolution that would that causes suffering to these poor pure harmless creatures you weren't listening if you're saying this you weren't listening to the meditation or if you listened you don't accept it which is your right if you want to stay miserable that's your prerogative keep coming here we're going to knock it out of you sooner or later because we don't go for misery but we go for your freedom or your right to be miserable until you've been miserable enough to do something about it and doing something about it has to do with recognizing that there's no outside power that has made a universe that brings any evil or any pain to anything in other words if you want to accomplish something you put yourself into a discipline When you put yourself into that discipline, what are you using?

You're using what people call willpower, aren't you? Isn't that will?

Well, where can you apply willpower? Only where you care. When you don't care, your willpower just doesn't go.

You have to care.

When we say, oh, how noble, how marvelous it is of so-and-so to be able to do such-and-such, well, it's always marvelous to have willpower. But we should remember that the will was there because the desire was there.

Desire is the power of the will. It feeds it like gasoline feeds the engine. But the will itself, the power of will is divine and whatever drives us, it is always the drive to be something more, to experience something more. But if things go wrong and we start blaming other people like the devil that poor handsome fellow honestly now you know what is mean the meaning of him is mirth laughter you see those who've been coming here regularly the minute I you know we kind of kid around about the devil we have chuckles because chuckling laughing at At one's own, nonsense is the secret behind unveiling the reality of will. The truth of the matter is, then, that that which we care about is that which we pay attention to.

And that which we want desperately enough is that which our will feeds.

And when ignorant of this principle and when we misinterpret this principle we feed the wrong things out of sheer ignorance and that's why key 15 really embodies ignorance more than anything else and that's why in occultism it is said the greatest sin is ignorance so all suffering is the result of ignorance. Ignorance. And can you help being ignorant? No. Because through ignorance you'll do all the wrong things necessary to develop the experience which will bring you the wisdom, which will bring you the insight, which will will enlarge your awareness and therefore develop in you the will to control the state of mind, the state of heart that feeds misery. Now, remember then, to be so sure that a power of evil exists exists is not perhaps wise. If one is going to believe in that power of evil in that way, in a relative sense, certainly. People who are immature are going to act in immature ways.

Children are not able to identify with other people or creatures protectively. They're unaware of the fact that if they do this or that they're going to hurt or injure. They simply are unaware. Aware they're ignorant because in that part of their evolution they are children so are we going to call them evil or are we going to say they are children now if we if it pleases us to keep screeching evil evil evil let's not be surprised if all kinds of terrible things continuously continuously are experienced in our personal lives.

Because we're giving faith, we're having faith.

We are feeding and nurturing a portion of experience which we need to look upon in another way. Now remember, in occultism we are not denying the existence of evil in this relative sense. And you know what we mean by relative.

Certainly when anybody is immature enough or infant enough to want to go out and kill murder maim hurt it's up to us to get indignant enough to stop them we're not going to let our children run around and break the furniture and smash the windows are we nor should we we have to be the disciplining hand but being the hand of discipline for our children is certainly other than going into rages of hatred and it's these rages of hatred that wish all kinds of evil and ugliness which bring us the wages of our own nonsense there is no such thing as the kind of devil that most people have thought exists just like there's no such thing as the kind of God that atheists do not believe in. The reason they became atheists is because they don't believe in the kind of God that orthodoxy has spoken about. But God is, and we have to experience God directly. Here we are trained to do so. But how can we experience God directly? When we are feeding the nonsense of separatism. You You are here because you are ready to feed something better.

And most of you have already been doing that.

You already have faith in your own ability to recognize where you are nurturing mistaken misinterpretations of experience. Experience. And you are here because you are ready to apply will to retraining your patterns of thinking and feeling. And don't think that this retraining is so difficult. What's difficult is remembering that what you've believed in before is a lot of nonsense. You cannot hurt hurt someone else even in thought you cannot say so and so should drop dead without injuring yourself do you know why you know why and yet you keep forgetting so many of you it's because there's only one self and everything we think and everything we feel returns to us and you'll say well well, I know I'm kind, I know I'm good, I know that I'm dependable, why have I been the subject of betrayal?

How do you develop anything except through the exercise of being within an area where all the people concerned, or most of them, are in a state of thinking separately?

In other words, you're not even ready for your next stage upwards until in the face of the impact of the thinking and feeling of others you know better and work at thinking better and feeling in a better manner if I find out that somebody has called me a very naughty name am I going to get upset or am I going to say click my tongue and say gee poor darling how miserable for them oh well I hope that if it makes this they have such an inferiority complex that they need to do this to feel better that's fine except I'm sorry they're going to have to have some problems you see we take the separate thinking feeling of others as though it were so and when we react emotionally in that way we're accepting their standards and we're all a little too grown up to do that anymore aren't we we've all reached a point I know where what we want to do is feed that which is more in reality with the universal good consciousness creates you are an expression of the one divine consciousness and there is nothing else It is therefore your responsibility to train your mind, to train your heart, to search for the good, and where you see the expressions of evil, to recognize these expressions as coming from infants, infants, those who have not yet evolved to an ability to be at one, therefore an ability to be in empathy with, an ability to feel with another.

I tell you, and I tell you this from the depth of my soul, there isn't a single pain existing in any of you that I do not feel with you there isn't a single tear that does not course down my cheeks but also there isn't a single anger that doesn't shoot through my heart with daggers and knives and it does it to you too but you are are not yet aware. We cannot afford to react in terms of an infant because we are ready to recognize and love our unity in God and God in us. And in the face of that which is evil, we have to have enough will to supply that image which is positive and loving and has its togetherness. We have to learn to supply it over and over again and we cannot say I've tried but it didn't work there's no such thing as failure as such we can fail a thousand times real failure is refusal to get up and try for the next time figuring I'll try not to stumble over this rock that stone own success is yours and it's assured in any case if not in this incarnation in some future incarnation but why not now why not now doesn't your heart hurt enough for the sorrow of humanity for the hurt of all life for the hurt of yourself doesn't it sorrow enough don't you think it is time that you start putting a little extra joy into the mind and hearts of others don't you think it is time that you become a true servant of God by using your percentage of will which is God's will because there is not of but by using your percentage of will to pour insight understanding and self-control all to hold your imagery where it belongs you cannot do it by yourself incidentally only egomaniacs think so that's part of the delusion of separateness you need help but that's it you've got help all the others who've gone before you why would I be here and others that you know not of you have help and you have the methods the tarot keys and you have the devices the training has given you the help the force in every way except you've got to do it you've got to do the walking you've got to do the utilizing and I say it's time to start consciously directing your will with the will of god to consciously recognize that all there is is god to consciously acknowledge that you have never been betrayed or mistreated by anybody to stop blaming anything and anybody at all if you have been betrayed it was only because that was your requirement for your growth bless and and love the betrayer for bringing you the lesson and the growth then you'll really be more than halfway along the way towards that which is going to bring you rapture ecstasy fulfillment and the capacity to lift the pain of humanity instead of weeping and brooding moaning and groaning oh but I never had a chance this was done to me in that this is nonsense every pain is a privilege and life is a privilege and everything that is is a miracle and life is a miracle and it is up to us to learn how to extract the beauty and even pain is our privilege of privileges out of it comes depth and beauty and love and true compassion and the truest compassion of all is that compassion compassion, that compassion which watches with real will its own thinking and feeling so that its beloved one and beloved ones will not suffer.

In other words, it becomes part of that which helps God, the husband, the wife, the child, the parent, the sister, the brother, and the friend, that will not permit itself to brood on negativity for the sake of all the people and creatures that we love. This is what I call truly achieving maturity, and this every one of you can do if you've suffered enough and care enough. The will of God then flows through you fully and if you're ready we're ready to make it together okay on the march talk for this morning
