Our sermon for this morning is Qabalah and Reincarnation.

And we read you this little bit from Job because it has been quoted so often as if a man dies shall he live again and some of the unhappy thinkings and feelings related to Job. But what is not usually understood is that after all the Bible was written by Qabalists in the entire ancient mystical tradition the prophets were specially instructed in what was called the oral and mystical traditions of the religion and the oral and mystical traditions were and are the Qabalah and And the reason there has been so much confusion about so many of the things that are said and quoted from the Bible happens to be that most human beings are not familiar with the language of the prophets who, after all, did write the Bible. It is called the Word of God, and after all, are we not channels for God, and let us hope at least most of the time, attempt to truly express the Word of God?

So there has been much lack of understanding and particularly in the Gospel of Job as in many others we have actual Qabalistic mention of reincarnation without it being apparent on the surface because where for instance it was said oh that I might go to the grave actually in Hebrew this is Sheol and Sheol is not the grave incidentally you see it has been mistranslated Sheol is the astral world and we could go along and give you so many phrases to show exactly what they truly do mean nevertheless what we want to do is try to cover for you this morning a few of the highlights that relate to the Qabalistic teachings in relation to reincarnation and we would like to say first though that it is a great great tragedy that at the time when the religious well I'm afraid we might just as well call them bigots of a period long long ago decided to collect the different books of the scriptures and then going over them decided which would be kept and which thrown out it is one of the greatest tragedies which has befallen the western civilization that all those books which more specifically and directly referred to reincarnation and have come to be known now as the Apocrypha that these were put aside by the religious bigots of that long ago period because and this truly is sad they wanted to be able to keep a firm control of the thinking and feeling of their followers. They were serving mammon and not God, and they were determined to instill fear, religious fear, into human beings in order to be able to run the government, the politics, the economics, and so on, just as they pleased. And so for that reason, amongst other reasons, the Western world lost the very thing which perhaps might have made a great difference in the religious and spiritual development of the Western civilization.

Still, on the other hand, it apparently was meant to be that way because, after all, if there be a divine plan, it must be that as the cycles go up and down, we do have to wander through darkness every once in a while in order to learn the lessons of darkness, only so can we overcome darkness and learn how to throw light into these shadowy places. However, then, back to the ideas of reincarnation. In Qabalah, it is definitely taught without question, if you will look at that tree of life, this is the synthetic glyph, the representation, the symbolic representation of both the macrocosm and the microcosm and of course we cannot go into the details in little sermons like this in our classes we teach this more fully and more in detail this is the framework for understanding the bible for understanding the mystical age-old practices of the true mystery schools this of course is not realized by many now then if you will look at that central yellow circle we you have heard me give this before and we will have to do it over and over again because it's only repetition of some ideas which eventually make them second nature so this yellow circle is assigned by qabalah to all the ideas that have to do with both Adam which incidentally means generic humanity and not one man and it has to do with Christ which again means the Redeemer and incidentally the King all right now Adam man was given dominion this is what's taught in Qabalah and it has been verified over and over again man Adam the king was given dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air but in order to really practice his dominion he had to go through the temptation of what's called eating the apple the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and this is the tree by the way the representation of the tree if one wishes someday I may give a course on the capitalistic interpretation of the important parts of the Bible it will be quite an eye-opener I know well now Now, eating of the tree, having to be able to differentiate between good and evil, is really developing consciousness.

This isn't recognized. In order to be conscious at all, we have to have one thing against another for comparison.

The light against the dark, the so-called good against the so-called evil. This against that. Otherwise, how are you going to be aware at all? Awareness demands and requires its opposites.

Therefore, eating of the tree so that we may know good and evil is merely developing consciousness through the impact of opposites and having to come into the struggle, shall we say, actually to battle with these opposites and these confusions in order to rule them. And if you will remember that the fish of the sea in the sea in qabalah the sea is consciousness it's the mother deep the fish is the reproductive function I mean this was known by those who wrote the bible so we need to learn how to be true kings well certainly no one in his right mind or perhaps even if his mind isn't right is going to begin to think that we can do this in one incarnation nation. Indeed, this yellow circle then is called the true ego, the one self. This is the decider of the development of the destiny, so to speak. And all those circles, or sefiroth below the tree, these are the personality vehicles, so that the green circle represents the vehicle of the desire nature. The orange circle represents the vehicle of the intellectual, mental nature. The purple circle there, the violet circle, represents the subconscious or astral body, but actually this astral body includes the desire body and the mental body. And then the very lowest one on the tree, this is the physical body. And this physical body is cast off and a new one always built from from that center of the purple circle as one evolves.

This is what's taught in the basic esoteric secret teachings and has been taught down through the ages.

This physical vehicle then is that which gives us the ability to come into contact with opposites. It limits and surrounds our consciousness with a specific field so that we can gain experience in, learn to know finally develop the ability to control that specific field within which our consciousness expresses itself that is our environment and our own thinking and feeling and after an incarnation is through the soul gets very weary as we all know it because it isn't perfected yet there are all kinds of messes developed naturally you don't expect good performance from children or from infants. Of course there are going to be all kinds of things that are done and thought and felt that are nonsensical, that are immature, that are indeed evil. Nevertheless, the knowledge of good and evil is what evolves the Christ consciousness eventually. And so we can see there's a purpose for what we choose to call evil, and this purpose would have to be good if we want to grant the idea that the creative life, God, the one self, is truly good. And those of us who don't wish to think that can go along that way for a while.

I was one of those. I could not see any justice in the universe when I was a youngster. All the pain, all the sorrow, all the horrible injustices about everywhere one looked. This made an atheist out of me for a while, because I figured if this is the sort of thing that a god creates, as far as I was concerned, it was a demon, and atheism seemed much more reasonable to me for a time of course very happily I outgrew that quickly because this is nonsense too and it was coming across the theory of reincarnation which truly struck me with a profound shock not that I liked the idea mind you I didn't like it one bit seemed to me a terrible thing that one would be stuck in a trap and not even be able to get out through death to have to come back into this pain this sorrow this frustration it's unhappiness for a few moments of joy or pleasure how dearly we did we seem to pay no I didn't like it a bit for myself or anyone else when the idea was presented to me nevertheless because I have always been determined to be open-mindedly objective as far as I was able I realized that I had to do research into this idea because if reincarnation were true it washed away my reasons for being an atheist that meant that perhaps justice did rule the world and if justice did rule the world why that left room for God in my thinking of that time I was very young remember only in my twenties at that period and so I started off on the great adventure and indeed I found out but curiously enough I was never interested in finding out about my own incarnations or anything like that it never seemed very important to me the only thing I wanted was to be able to get out but fast if possible which was an erroneous attitude also incidentally but we go through our stages because we must now then as I continued on my spiritual adventures I certainly discovered that there was no question whatsoever about the validity of reincarnation and I am not easily brought to heel on any new thought that is not in line with my own logic I'm a very skeptical soul and it took a great deal of convincing nevertheless the Lord of Life apparently meant for me to be convinced and I certainly was now I want to tell you then about dr. Case at this point and one at least of his experiences because that will lead us to some of the background deepest philosophical ideas that we need to have in order to make the best use of our incarnation. Now when Dr. Case was quite a young man incidentally, he was only in his 20s at the time, he was doing researches in tarot and Qabalah and had become profoundly taken up with it. In other words, it had him, which is a very nice state to be in by the way. And while While he was pouring over the Tarot keys and the Tree of Life with their many associations, as one is taught to do in the training processes of this work, it sensitized him so that suddenly, instead of being Paul Case sitting in his own little room meditating on Tarot and Qabalah, he was Rabbi Wolf a little over 200 years previously living in Warsaw, Poland sitting in his little office at his own little desk studying a Latin treatise on Qabalah but finding it very difficult to keep his mind or attention on this little book of his it was a book from his own library in Latin because it kept being pulled away worrying about the family and his most intense worry in this experience he was it was his daughter Rebecca Rebecca was already 16 years old and she was not yet married and this was very bad and yet in order to get her a proper husband there was the question of a sufficient dowry and money was not very easy to get hold of so he was just worrying about Rebecca his daughter Rebecca and the need to get her married off before she was an old maid and so on the various things about the house and having to forcefully draw his attention back to his Qabalistic book then suddenly there There he was again, Paul Case, in Chicago.

He was in Chicago at that time. And the experience was so vivid, so extraordinarily vivid, that it rather shook him because he could have no question about the validity of it, really. He was aware of all those little factors that a human being is aware of in their sense of I, whatever we are, I, Anne, or I, Harriet, All the things about it, the whole personality complex, you might say, was a part of this experience.

So he went down to the library where his very good friend and occult brother happened to work, the main library in Chicago.

He happened to have an appointment with him, as a matter of fact. They were to go out to dinner. So he went over to the library and while he was there waiting for him to finish up he told him about the experience he had just had and his friend said would you repeat that to me now what did you say the name was and he said and he said what year was it and he told him and he said you say it was a Latin treatise on Qabalah he said yes it was a book from my own library he He said, wait a minute. And he disappeared and came back with one of the employees of the library. And he gave him a special key. He said, go down to the vault and get out the book that came in this morning from that collection we received. They had received a collection. Some wealthy person had died and left some very rare, very old and very rare books to the library.

And they had and this one all those that were in a state of disrepair that were very old and almost ready to crumble had been carefully gathered together and put in the vault in order to prepare them to be renovated so that they would last so he told the employee to bring up the specific package it was a wrapped package went down and brought it up and then dr case's friend opened the book without letting him see it he said all right now what did you say that you had your own name in the book he said yes uh he mentioned I had my name and I had this date in it and that was on the front cover and he said what page were you reading at the time you were worrying so and trying to study he told him the page he turned to the page and he said now what was the context of what you were reading dr k said well I can't quote it exactly word for word but the actual meaning of what I was reading in latin was thus and thus and thus and thus and so the friend started to read it to him in latin they both knew latin and greek by the way as well as hebrew and it was the same context now this of course is one of the most extraordinary verifications what we mean by verification is we mean a definite physical verification of a reincarnational memory that I think I have ever come across besides two or three others which are equally amazing like that child in india and there was another child from canada who had something equally startling but the point is this wasn't exactly memory here's the difference between what sometimes people think they remember as past incarnations and the real experience this isn't like memory this is a self-knowingness with all the elements that go with this self-knowingness at the moment that it is experienced or tuned into you might say now of course the interesting thing we need to consider here if we want to understand some of the underneath philosophical and psychological aspects of this at least as seen in qabalah is the fact that dr case from age 16 years of old developed a passion for research into tarot and qabalah and he was he never had to learn hebrew at all and when he developed this passion he found when he got the books that all he had to do was go down the alphabet and he knew it it was like remembering so that he became a very great Hebrew scholar and was able to look up the original qabalistic texts in their original languages without having gone to any school he was able to just remember by reviewing so that But though he did go through all the various books necessary in this era, it was a very quick review.

And Dr. Case is known as one of the world's greatest experts in tarot and Qabalah, the foremost authority indeed, and he was so much more. Very few people realize how much Dr. Case really was. Now, the very fact that he had this basic ability to almost immediately pick up and quickly something that should have required a little more study, we must grant, would in itself indicate that there was a past reincarnation of which it had already been learned. That in itself would really have been enough and many people who have such a longing to experience past incarnations or find out what they were and so on fail to realize that it is not necessary and indeed it is not even wise if it becomes necessary or wise for any one or few incarnations to be known those who are on the path are given this experience or they are given it in some way where there can be no question about its validity and when that comes it's only because they are already ready to tie up some tendency to a present tendency in order to do a bit more growing and evolving but of course most of us being very human seem to have have great longings to experience or to know what it is we were and were not.

And unfortunately, most human beings have a tendency to accept or at least to experience in a delusive form past grandiose incarnations thinking that this indicates something very marvelous. Well, we're going to tell you a few stories about that to show you the Qabalistic point of view.

For example Dr. Case tells of course we'll just start off with this of the time he was invited to be guest speaker at a theosophical banquet and having been in the occult field then for quite some time this was in the east of course much to his horror when he got to the banquet table he found seven Cleopatras each of seven women through the three or four years previously had come to him and confided to him that once upon a time they were Cleopatra. He was very disturbed for fear that when they got to chatting together about their past incarnations, there might be a difficult time of it when there were seven claimees to this very seductive state of being in the past. And of course, one of the amusing things is also that Dr. Case would smile, that very sweet smile he had, and say the unhappy thing is that every one of them would have to have had the Cleopatric qualities in the past they'd none of them had that basic sex appeal that most women apparently long for you see now this is one of the great problems in the field of course and it is very well known by those who happen to be destined to at least guide certain factions of occult work and study.

So we are going to try to show you more of the principle behind what reincarnation indicates, so that perhaps if any of us have the tendency to at least wish along for past incarnations that show how glorious we were, we might perhaps find out that wasn't being so glorious after all, if it were so. All we have to do is look at what we call the leaders of the world and analyze their mental emotional levels and perhaps that should tell us how wonderful it is or is not to have at any time been a great general or a great king or a great princess or a great Cleopatra or some other great seductress or orator or teacher whatever it is that we think of in actuality almost always the leaders in history are a representation of the mass evolution of the entire group or country which they represent and when you consider that if you get the mass mind reaction for instance look at lynch mobs each person might have very sweet and lovely tendencies get them together in a group and get them angry and the lower animal nature is the thing they all share enough in common so that they become beasts this is the mass mind energy reaction which is so strong still because we are really children we are infants traveling the path of return and this is a glorious thing to be if we'd realize it and so when you recognize this principle and in Qabalah it is taught very definitely of course that that which symbolically represents and guides or rules a people is most of the time a representation of the development of these people as a group you will not wonder perhaps that we have at least three-quarters of our governmental representatives who though they may have learned how to use nice long words are without question at least I mean at tops about 12 years old mentally and perhaps five years old emotionally isn't this so look this is so and why because after all it is the energy extensions of the mass development this is why but every once in a while because evolution does tend upwards every once in a while there comes into incarnation a leader who will help pull this mass mind level up a little bit of a notch doesn't it isn't much and when this time is ripe that which is evolving and good and kind and spiritual in the human heart and it's there sometimes covered up so much that one might question it but truly it's there every once in a a while we have a Ben Franklin, a Thomas Jefferson, or a Lincoln. But this is rare, very rare.

On the whole, you have the other situation functioning. And so, why long to be anything or to have been anything that the world looks upon as a high estate? Perhaps it's an indication of a much more lowly development when you consider that each human being singly usually is much nicer than when you take them as a mob. Isn't that so? So it might be a good reason for us to stop at least longing for these so-called high positions, and this includes the monetary aspect too, of course. People who have a lot of money these wealthy ones it's very rarely you'll find amongst them anything really beautiful they just have an awful lot of trouble they never know if anybody loves them for themselves or their money I think that is and I say this with true meaning a hell of a situation these human beings live in hell never to know whether somebody loves us or our money if there are good reason not to be very wealthy that would be reason enough when you consider that the human nature at this stage in its evolution and especially in the western culture which has been taught to so worship some of these things imagine the sadness of that type of incarnation and then the burdens and responsibilities there's nothing so wonderful about being born to handle a lot of money it's probably a punishment if we but knew it for by punishment we don't mean it in the usual sense this soul probably has to learn to stop worshipping that which he can't take with him because when you die and you reincarnate again you're not going to take any of your beautiful clothes or any of your social positions or any of your authoritative positions of any kind at all you're going to take the depth of your own thinking feeling processes and the way you have reacted to life this is what you take with you and nothing else nothing at all and when you come back you will be coming back with this capacity to respond which you have developed before so let's look again at some of the things that we evaluate from and so incorrect correctly to understand even a little more fully perhaps the cabalistic stand on the philosophical psychological reasons for and developments of reincarnation itself I'll tell you another little story about dr. Case when he was on his way from the east to California that was the time he was planning he hadn't actually been planning to move the work out in the west coast it was just that it was destined to be so and this was part of the process he stopped in reno and through some unhappy group of circumstances found himself without funds because he had become ill and had to spend what few funds he had waiting to recover from this illness but instead of recovering he got worse and he lost consciousness in his own little hotel room now he had about a week previously to that for a few days gone down to a little gambling place in Reno he like he used to love to tell this story to classes but he never told the whole story I'm going to tell you the whole story he only told part of it he had gone down for several nights in a row he used to he was quite a prestidigitator you know magnificent magician and he loved to entertain people he loved to bring them the laughter the beauty and everybody just adored it and adored him so he was showing them at this club this gambling club some of his little effects with prestidigitation and so on charmed them very much and had been we said coming down every evening and then had mentioned they hadn't felt well then they didn't see him there. Well, he became unconscious and he was unconscious all by himself in that hotel room for three days. But when he came to, he found sitting next to him a prostitute whom he had met at the club. She had told him very frankly what she was. She had come in there when he was doing some tricks, nursing him. And then he lost consciousness again when he came to there was the card dealer nursing him and so he switched in and out of consciousness a great deal for a long time he was on the verge of death and it was their care which saved his life now both of them had just felt a strong feeling for some strange reason they had taken to him and the prostitute had intuitively felt that something was wrong because she rather thought he would have said goodbye he seemed that kind he would have said I am leaving and she had such a compulsion within her heart to check that she spoke to the car dealer at the club and so they both went down to the hotel after checking around by phone because they They didn't know where he was.

They found he was registered at that specific hotel. They both went down to the hotel and found him unconscious and decided that they would have to, of course, help him. So the car dealer sat with Dr. Case at night, and the prostitute sat with him during the day because, of course, at night she had to ply her trade. She had to earn her living.

And when Dr. Case here's the part he never did tell to the class when he would tell the story during one of the periods when he came into consciousness as the illness was receding a bit he had a glimpse of this prostitute's past incarnation not the immediate past but one that she had had many centuries ago, many centuries previous. He saw her as a sibyl in one of the temples, well-versed in the stars, reading charts and guiding the various noblemen of that period and having a very fine understanding of it. And with his vision heightened at that time he saw her soul and saw that this was a remarkably highly evolved soul this prostitute so he used to like to say I will tell you the rest of the story which he never told he used to like to say to the class so remember, if this work has value for you if it is helping you on the path of return turn if it is bringing you riches don't forget to send love and gratitude to a prostitute and a very dishonest car dealer who had so much love in their hearts that they went to a man they did not know at all who'd only entertain them a little bit at a club someone they didn't know they spent their own money to feed him they gave up their sleep and their time to nurse him and then they gave him money to get to Los Angeles where he had students and followers waiting for him this he asked the class to please remember when they start evaluating what is highly evolved and what is not highly evolved it can be very misleading very misleading indeed so when he got out here in view of the vision he had had of her past very long past she'd had many incarnations since he went to the astrological temple and he bought her a full set no it was to Llewellyn George's excuse me he bought her a full set of astrology books everything that taught astrology from a to z and he shipped these out to her that's all just a gift of love a gift of thank you and what happened was that when she got hold of those astrology books she had pretty much the same experience that he had had with qabalah it came to her quickly in a startlingly rapid manner something that is very rare again there was something in the vehicle she had at that time that was tuned in to be able to pick up that development you see sometimes we come in vehicles and we pick these vehicles deliberately which will not tune in certain past incarnational abilities because it's necessary to develop other portions of our personality to have other kinds of experiences but when we need a past ability we have a vehicle which will at the proper time tune in the ability even though we will not necessarily remember the incarnation at all certainly this prostitute didn't remember it it was dr case's vision which gave him the realization of what he could do for her so she picked this up so rapidly that in two years she retired from her profession and became a very successful and fine counselor through astrology, and she became a profound follower of the path of return, and her spiritual growth was staggering because it was already basically there.

She needed the experience of being a prostitute for whatever reason, and if one wonders you remember how jesus kind of seemed to have a weakness for this type of profession didn't he and you know the same thing is said of buddha it's a good reason for it we have to learn to stop worshiping false gods to look upon worldly standards for evaluation of evolutionary level because they can fool us and they do fool us and that they're only a commentary on our being taken in by a bunch of nonsense which is meaningless in the beyond and when we return but it is not really meaningless because it just gives us more problems truly not that there's anything wrong with having money except it's an extra burden or the high position it's terrible responsibility no good longing for those things it doesn't indicate anything truly however the idea of what purpose could there be for instance in somebody who already might have such a high evolution being for example a prostitute the reason we use that is because that's probably looked down on as the lowest and therefore it's the best example to use is it not well I know of a case and I know this case intimately of a woman who came she too had attained some very extraordinary uh spiritual states previously but she went in for a series of incarnations which were very strange ones for one of this kind of spiritual insight and development she came into incarnation as a courtesan and incidentally was quite successful very successful at it then her next incarnation she was an enforced forced prostitution. She was kidnapped and had to, through no desire or will of her own, had to live a life of true degradation. And in her next incarnation, she was a very effective an extraordinary reformist suffragette and fighter for human rights now then let's analyze this just a moment and we'll perhaps we'll start to see something to come in as a courtesan of course there must be something in the nature still that needs a little opening up or experiences in that area because don't forget no matter how evolved we are or how much we've grown there's always more and more and more so the soul can choose to come in and have a certain kind of experience to bring certain kind of karmic patterns in order to develop a certain drive for purposes since don't forget the soul does not look at just one incarnation the higher soul and that is that higher soul is is in every one of us when we say I that's our higher soul whether we're conscious of it or not we're working at becoming conscious of it now then in this group of incarnations we've just spoken to you about of of this particular individual, and I assure you that they are completely accurate.

This soul went through these experiences, the degradation and so on, in order to develop emotional intensity towards justice.

In other words, to find, she had to be the courtism to bring on the repercussion of the enforced prostitution. She had to have the enforced prostitution to see the terrible state that the female of the species was in in that period to see that a woman almost always had no other recourse if she were not remaining within the protection of or shall we say enslavement of the family and or husband if one got married in other words woman had no way to be her own self in full during this period of cultural development in the last many many centuries as we know and so this soul because the soul had the capacity to do it chose to take the kind of incarnation which would make a burning need to bring reform to the whole social structure you see a soul that was not too highly evolved would have become bitter and raved and ranted about the injustice in life and developed a martyr complex and so on so you see it's how we react to a life situation that counts now this soul reacted with a burning need to help all females and indeed all injustice wherever it might be to help in whatever manner she could this was the mark of herd growth and so in her next incarnation she found herself born with this rebellion against bigotry this rebellion against enslavement and she was a very powerful suffragette and though her name is not well known like a two or three others it is mainly because at the time that the with that women were granted the right to vote this one had already passed on she was one of the first in other words it takes the hardiest it takes the most intense and it takes the most profound drives in relation to a soul who shows the way first and these very rarely are too well known in history though this one got a little tiny place if one looks hard enough through the library shelves you have to look awfully hard but it's there so you see the need to evolve our consciousness the need to serve the need to help by whatever little we can the whole race karma this can make many and indeed does make many vast and great and beautiful souls choose certain incarnations of extra hardship.

And when others look upon such souls and say, gee, they must have been rotten and cruel and mean, look at the kind of life they've got. They couldn't be more mistaken.

They couldn't be more mistaken. We have unfortunately come to look upon the type of problems in an incarnation as an indication of whether we were good or bad in a previous incarnation. And this is not correct. This is the thing we are going to need to change in our consciousness because we think we're thinking of it then in terms of punishment and it isn't that at all although it is true if any of us hold say race prejudice in our hearts we can be very sure that we're going to reincarnate if not the next one the one after that because sometimes there's a weight of several incarnations we're going to come in as the minority race of that period and era and we'll get a little of the feeling not that everyone in a minority race there again you see you must be careful not that any everyone in a minority race has just hated other minorities sometimes they come in so that they will know they just choose to know what it's like to be a minority and be mistreated in order to to develop the fire and the drive to help lift humanity a little bit more.

Just to know.

Indeed, there's only one thing worth knowing, and that is knowing.

Sounds queer, but growth is a matter of direct experience.

And therefore we pass through high places, so-called, and low places, so-called. And it's all the riches which bring us the expansion of consciousness.

And as we learn to recognize this principle, as we learn to see what the true significance of reincarnation happens to be, which is just the stages seen in steps of a child growing up, that's all, in order to attain to full kingship, which is our destiny.

We are all destined to have, but we will not be exercising it very well until we understand all the various principles of cause and effect, that is, what kind of thinking feeling brings what kind of experience, and along with that, develop enough love so that we will not have the slightest tendency to wish to condemn or sit in judgment upon anyone doing anything, so that we will feel that every unhappy soul crouched behind a prison wall is our brother and every woman walking the streets earning her living in a very unhappy and degraded manner every such woman our sister when we come to feel this way we will not require this kind of unhappy experience because we will have the insight and the love and we will therefore then truly be able to develop the powers do not think for one moment that the true spiritual powers are given to anyone anyone at all who could be tempted in the slightest way to use these powers for self-glorification although they would deceive themselves naturally see this is our problem too our need to be big is such and if we decide that being very spiritual is being big we can walk around in this role of spirituality and not have a slightest iota of it in our true hearts yet we can march around playing this role in order to be able to condescend and spread what we call our spiritual riches upon others but when we have this feeling in that way we haven't got the spiritual riches to really shed he who has it just spreads it automatically wherever he goes without knowing he's doing it even because the love flows the love flows and you begin where you are and and so if you want to have incarnations that are more fulfilling that give you more opportunity to truly serve and everyone in the deepest heart of hearts really has that the important thing to do is to start working on the response we have to life situations here and now don't waste your time wondering what I was last incarnation or umpteen incarnations ago it isn't important your tendencies are your own verification of what you've been before that's all you need to know if you have a tendency to be jealous that's enough you don't have to find out about incarnation you killed somebody or they killed you and then somebody you're supposed to learn how to love if you could remember all of a sudden you'd be you'd want to kill him again get it stimulated over again that's not going to get you anywhere or they you or something like that I mean you go around and around the same place much better the way it is believe me and so to keep one sense of humor is of course very important we take ourselves too seriously we get lost in very twilight areas and yet we need to take some part of ourselves very seriously and that is that in us which was never born which will never die but directs the development of the personality and the vehicles so that this vehicle can serve as a complete channel through which rulership is expressed and practiced and then remember and I if I be lifted up shall lift all others unto myself this comes from learning how to feel into other sorrowful human hearts and then to help lift them with your love when you have that you will find and you can get it of course that's what our work is all about all our tarot series are aimed at just knocking down and out all your old patterns your past incarnational patterns and your present life patterns that are not in accordance with the laws of life and love as we are growing into them to knock out all those ignorant and misbegotten conceptions and to replace them with that which is true and eternal and meaningful all our tarot work is aimed at that then from that the qabalistic work continues and when you are ready you will be given we don't forget we have an exoteric and an esoteric section in our work when you are ready you will be given ever more of the secrets and ever more of the techniques to attain to ever more of the spiritual powers and you will have earned them only when you don't really want them in the way that others do and so this is the basic philosophy behind the reincarnational aspects of Qabalah. We have had to cover it very briefly, of course, but you can see it's very beautiful. And as far as believing in reincarnation, this we say to you, we don't ask anybody to believe or not to believe. We ask you only to keep an open mind, and if you need to know it's so the verification will come to you just be determined to keep going along that path towards the maturity from the immaturity the growing up so we can become grown children of God instead of the infants that we are
