My talk is Subconscious Transmutations in the Initiate.

Now, I want to remind you that I've been giving a series on the different grades of development that have to do with initiation, with adepts, with masters, and to help give you more of an understanding understanding of the levels involved and the work involved in these various levels of evolution or growth as we deal with it in the Western Mysteries. In actuality, I've been talking about the selfsame methods and principles that we have been teaching for many thousands of years.

Always though bringing in whatever changes are necessary for the changes that come about within civilization and one of the extraordinarily wonderful things about the entire qabalistic tarot way of return is that no matter what occurs in the physical universe no matter what what scientific discoveries are made, you find that the teaching you've been receiving is always in harmony with it. Now, you know, this is pretty staggering, because if you consider the various religions of the world, the exoteric religions, they have all developed around themselves fixated notions, notions, creeds, dogmas which become prejudices, rigid patterns that involve an emotional intensity of a kind where you're either going to believe these rigid ideas, accept these rigid patterns, or else you're doomed in whatever way that particular group thinks doom takes place. They can call it hell or they can call it wandering in the wilderness. There are many different kinds of hell. To somebody who lives on the equator, hell is hot.

And to somebody who lives in the snow, I'm sure hell might be cold. That is, if you, wherever you live in extremes, hell is something that's supposed to be very super uncomfortable, that's the thing. But the point is that you find in practically, I think, in every religion through the centuries, through the millennia, that as humanity progresses in its scientific discoveries, the various teachings become outmoded. They even become silly. They become so nonsensical and good minds, not only throw them away, but they lose faith in many other things.

And they will often become either agnostic or go to the extreme of becoming atheistic.

In other words, losing faith in a bunch of dogmas makes them lose faith in everything. And this is rather sad because it's pretty much like saying, well, inasmuch as I have lost faith in your definition of God, I've decided there is no God.

You know, that's not logical. But this is the thing so many people do.

And even those who believe in a new definition then start having moments of doubt when they see certain things or occurrences and then they have to fight with their own little doubts and skepticisms and so on now the remarkable the extraordinary thing about the entire true western mystery training system has been that never has anything been taught that has to be untaught never has a pattern been given that has been proven wrong. Always, as science has progressed and discovered new things, it has merely thrown new light on the age-old teachings because these teachings have not been based on the narrow minds of unevolved humanity.

They were given, according to tradition, by the angels. And as I said, if you don't believe in angels, maybe I'd better come dressed in wings and a halo again at our party. But with all this joking, chuckling aside, the tradition is that the teaching about God, the universe, man, life, and the relationships that exist between them were given by the angels. And of course if we know how to interpret the idea of what do we mean by angels I know there's one there was one well-known spiritualistic medium but the minute somebody died and appeared in the astral form she referred to all of them as angels and boy I can't begin to tell you how many devils were called angels you know because dying certainly doesn't suddenly make you spiritual that is dropping a physical body whatever you are you are until you've evolved out of it but it used to amuse me to hear about her determination to think anybody the minute they were dead they were angels it's just like when people pass on so many of us all of a sudden we start feeling guilty and maybe we don't want to admit it to ourselves we start thinking gee once I thought this and that about the that particular person and so at a funeral the things you'll usually that you'll come across is this tremendous oration I mean if you if you believed everything that was said about the one that's passed on at funerals wouldn't we have the most marvelous world, the problems would be over, truly, because after all, character defects are really infantile levels of evolution. And infantile levels of evolution come about because the mind of man, the heart of man, has not yet evolved to a point as a whole where it is able to be completely receptive to the direction of its higher permanent true self. The personality is an instrument being grown by this higher and it simply is not a finished product. Anything that isn't a finished product is going to act in ways that are very unbeautiful, of course. And in your exoteric religions you have interpretations, or should I say misinterpretations, would be a more accurate word, of certain really true ideas, but misinterpretations because the mind has not yet been able to entertain a higher concept. And so people have a way of worshipping their interpretation of whatever God is, their interpretation. People have a way of projecting their idea of what a God is supposed to be or is not supposed to be and of course when you try to put qualifications and qualities from a limited mind onto that which is beyond our comprehension on this level you can can see that we're going to get a lot of nonsense that will develop into the exoteric religion.

Now, in the mystery school training, however, as I've been pointing out, great care has been taken through the millennia to carefully choose and prepare, teach, and train those souls who who have reached a point where they are ready to receive and work upon and develop the higher concepts of creation, of God, of evolution. And so, teaching the idea of how creation came about, if you realize 6,000 years ago Qabalah said that the universe starts by the concentration of the Divine Mind concentrating itself in such a way that it starts what is called the beginning of the whirlings. Now we know now that all the universe is in a state of whirlings. And you ask then, how? Six 6,000 years ago. How did these people know? They knew because there were always a few who were here to help stir the evolution of the rest of humanity. It's like several drops of cream, volunteering. As I said, I don't know how much of a real volunteering it really was because you know one of my jokes is that somewhere up there some Archangel comes along and says hey you you've just volunteered to go down there I have you You sure have.

But at any rate, let's call it volunteering.

And there are always a few drops of what you might call queen, that is, older souls, older souls being what? Those who've had an opportunity to make more mistakes.

Think of it right exactly so whenever you hear the word old soul remember it's somebody who's had an opportunity to make plenty of mistakes wherever you see somebody who seems to you to be a saint how could anybody become a saint except that person finally managed to overcome sin whatever that means so you know one of the things they say behind every saint there's a past Doesn't that sound nicely wicked? And behind every, and in front of every sinner, there's a future.

You know, the kind of future which eventually, whether they like it or not, you know, that's perhaps, I don't know if you think it's sad, but whether they like it or not, sooner or later they're going to end up as saints.

I don't know how many incarnations it'll take, a hundred, a thousand, a million. God's got lots of time. You know, God isn't limited by time, and after all, we're parts of that one divinity. However, then, realizing that there have always been those who have achieved a level of growth, of development, of knowingness. These continuously in this divine hierarchy which BOTA represents these have gathered about them those who are ready for this extra training this extra teaching who have developed the mental capacity the emotional capacity to start working on their own evolution as we've pointed out before for that all of human evolution must be taken into its own hands once it has achieved a certain level. The mass humanity goes by compulsion altogether as mass humanity up to a point. But once we achieve a certain point, the need for the complete individualization of each center of God—and this individualization means having all these different uniqueness levels, you see, all of these specialization levels which are part of the one life—in order to have that, each center of God, which means you, even me. Each center of God has to come to a point where it says, from now on I have achieved a certain level of maturity where I know I'm immature. Doesn't that take, you know, that takes maturity don't you think it takes maturity to say I know I'm immature and I know that in order to become mature I have to find out the principles I have to discover the message I have to test and try them out I have to take myself in hand now at this point we start going in for what we call the transmutations of subconsciousness. And so the initiate, remember what I have said about an initiate, an initiate means to begin, to initiate. An initiate is one who has consciously started on the path of return by saying, I'm going back to my Papa, I mean the Divine Papa, you know, I'm tired of being a prodigal. And by and going back means you travel it of course sometimes we get mad and we say I've been a good boy why doesn't why doesn't dear old dad who after all the king why doesn't dear old dad send a chariot I don't have to work at going back to him you know so I can just be carried back with no effort I know it would be nice if we could our muscles would get pretty they get pretty weak though wouldn't they we didn't do our own climbing and besides look what we'd miss god doesn't do it that way the point is when we have decided we're on our way back to the divine this decision doesn't mean that we ever were lost souls in in the sense that lots of people think what it means basically is that in order to develop individuality we had to be projected out by the one life or one God like a ray but we've never been separated from that one life and being on we are a ray that is continuous a ray of light is continuous being projected on that ray what we do now is learn to to let our consciousness, which is at the end of the ray, start, developing the ability to travel back along that ray to the center of that which projects it, the higher self, the true self.

But along with that, where it has the freedom to sort of run up and down the ray. In other words, otherwise, why be a ray to begin with? Then you have all the fun of the experiences, experiences and you even can have the fun of continuously extending the influence of your light your Portion the ray that you are in this radiation from the one life or the one God Now in order to be able to do this though there are there are these Elements we that we call the subconscious patterns now would somebody like to open the curtain for just a few minutes so that I can let you see the tree.

I want to show you something on the Tree of Life and then we'll close it again, you know, for the rest of the service. But I want you to get this image into your mind.

It isn't there.

It isn't there. I guess it's in the back room. You can turn around and see it on the back wall, huh? Yeah, you can see the one. That's the one that was stolen from me. Would you think that divine, beautiful brothers and sisters would steal?

I love to shock people with a little remark like that. While I was away in New Zealand, I was given this beautiful surprise. We were showing members. I brought down this little tree that I'd colored, oh, I think 20 years ago. And this was done in order to help entice people to color their own tree, because when you color it yourself, it becomes a part of you you learn it this is part of the training method and so while I was away in new zealand it was decided that it would be very beautiful to mount that tree and I I said well now I can't take it home he said no that was the idea we get to keep it here very clever but it looks nice there don't you think so all right well if you if you can see the tree there easily enough well you You can look at that. If not, you turn around and you can see that nice big one on the back wall.

Now the thing is, in Qabalah, the return of consciousness to its source, remember, does not involve leaving anything from below. What it involves is mastering the below more and more and developing an ability to receive the powers from above. As you'll see looking at the Tree of Life, because the whole aim of evolution is to bring the entire power of the One Divine Self into what's called Malkuth, or the Kingdom, into expression in the physical world or the physical environment. And this takes time. Look how, look, that is time in terms of our thinking while we're in a body. Look how long it took as our scientists study evolution. How long it took to even get the dinosaurs into motion. And how long it took for the first mammals to evolve on this planet. Look how long it took for the first human forms to develop which could be able to express that divine self-consciousness more fully. And yet every living thing, every living creature, every blade of grass is a living, growing evolutionary essence, an aspect of the One God in its different stages of unfoldment. And each stage has a responsibility, a very deep responsibility for the stages below both from within the human and those that are below. When we say below we're not talking against it. Is that beautiful baby there below us or is it just younger physically. This is the idea though. An animal is just as divine as we are. Now if you're shocked at that then you're not ready to see that everything is of one God. A blade of grass is just as divine as you and I are. Everything is part of the one divine and this is what we have to come to see in the transmutations of the subconsciousness. Now the reason subconsciousness develops patterns that are very immature, similar to that which was read to you from the Book of Tokens, patterns that really in a relative sense could be called evil. Why evil? Because that which was good for ten years ago or a million years ago is not good for today. We therefore have to develop patterns as we go along in evolution and the patterns that served us in one period of growth or evolution we have to dissolve and form new patterns for our next stage and in the very act of recognizing this and going to work on reforming the patterns this is what evolves us in a more rapid manner and in fact it's the only way in which we can evolve so on that tree of life if you will see the very bottom circle or Sephirah that you look upon is called malkus or the physical plane the one immediately above it that's colored violet yes it foundation that is the Sephirah or the sphere of the activity of consciousness which involves involves subconscious patterns now actually all of subconsciousness has and involves patterns think of this for a moment how do you think the entire universe is formed as it is formed well according to the teachings from the inner knowing and I can certainly bear witness to the truth of this with my inner experience of this which is most consistent the subconscious substance it's a fluidic like substance that we may call non-physical yet all physical things develop because of this substance it is what you might call mental substance but mental substance has different levels and there's a level of universal mental substance that you might call universal subconscious mental substance and this subconscious mental substance is the substance that holds the patterns or can we say the memories of God with that and now that's patterns and these patterns are eternal. The memories of God cannot be wiped out. The patterns cannot be wiped out. But it's in and through and from these patterns that the evolution of the physical universe takes place. It collects condensations of matter. Now the evolution of the physical universe then is dependent on what? It's dependent on subconscious patterns. Therefore no matter what level we look upon that deals with the physical universe we have to be able to say to ourselves that this physical thing is there because there is a non-physical physical pattern, non-physical. In other words, it's a pattern made out of mental stuff. And because it's made out of mental stuff, and only because there is a pattern made out of mental stuff, I don't know if you like that term, but I think it's as good as any, it's because of that that we have what we call physical things, a physical universe, physical motion. All things are projected from these patterns and so in Qabalah it is taught that the physical universe is projected from the patterns of yesid as you can see looking at the tree and the patterns of yesid hold the patterns of what is meant to be evolutionary-wise in its highest sense, as well as the patterns that have been thought and formed into being by every center of divine consciousness, because you are the way God is creating and transmuting and evolving this portion of the physical universe.

And since no memory can die I'm pointing out that every memory is a form it is a pattern therefore everything that we have done and been from the very start of our travels from the infinite into the evolution of our individuality is registered in this mental stuff our Eastern brethren have often called it the Akashic Records. Now our own personal pattern history is also there but it isn't just history. Remember mental patterns are the framework of what is going to happen on the physical plane and no amount of trying to think oneself out of it is going to work. If you say well, then why is a baby born in this and this condition? What kind of mental framework could the baby have? We're talking about a being that's eternal. We're not talking about a baby that's just suddenly been created. No baby has suddenly been created. A human baby could be older than any one of us here and just be starting its physical form for its next stage of growth. So the thing to remember then is that everything physical is a result of patterns, patterns that we share. Now we all share in the patterns of human thought and evolution.

That's why I've often said whether you like it or not you're stuck together so you might as well learn to love it. In other words we're a part of human beings, some call it the human, we share then in the human karma. We're also part of our genetic group. So we share in the karma of our genetics. We're part of our particular country, for example. So we share in the karma of our country. We're part of a smaller family group. We share in the karma of the family. Husbands and wives when they get married they decide to take up life together they go into something that is a sharing of each other's patterns that is the subconscious patterns and these this sharing of the patterns just takes place automatically when you are thinking other people that are attuned to you in any way whatsoever will be receiving your thought whether they're consciously aware of it or not when we're aware of it we call it telepathy in other words this unity of the pattern world is always there and it's within this pattern world world. It's within this subconsciousness that the transmutations of the patterns that are within our field of responsibility must take place. In other words, you cannot do anything about what your husband or your wife or your sister or your child is going to be doing as regards his or her patterns or your friend or anybody else.

Not change somebody else's patterns, not directly anyway.

You may try, and you know what happens. All that happens is that you get upset and say somebody is dumb because they won't listen to me.

Or so-and-so is...

Very unevolved.

That's always one of the nice things you like to think. So-and-so is very unevolved because they don't see that if they do as I tell them that that would be the evolved way to act or be.

And we get very upset if we don't stop to think about it a little more carefully, if other people do not follow our ideas about what their conduct should or should not be, or if they do not change what we think they ought to change. You know, somebody might be a saint and we might think that that's a very terrible trait to have. I know when I was told that I've got to try to control my compulsion to hug and kiss people because I had it explained to me people could get the wrong impression, or very often did. Did, and that as the head of the work, you know, I had to present a certain picture and image and so I should try to control this compulsion that comes over me to hug and kiss when it does. And I thought about it and I thought, well, I guess maybe I ought to. I ought to. Well, I think many of you know what happened in New Zealand when I tried it. I was very, very good, I thought, and I just sat there and behaved myself beautifully and and I didn't grab hold of anybody to hug and kiss them.

And, you know, here these reserve British in New Zealand, and this was our first meeting. So I was behaving as beautifully as anybody could, in accordance with the advice, only when we got up to say goodbye, you know, thank you for the afternoon tea and the talk, the very first one in line just grabbed me. I mean, she outdid me, believe me. She said, I can't help it, I can't help it. All I want to do is hug and kiss you. I've had such a compulsion, I can't stand it. And I found myself being hugged and kissed like mad. And then the next, oh, so, and at least a dozen, two dozen voices. Yeah, that's exactly how I've been feeling, exactly how I've been feeling. And you should have seen it was a madhouse. Everybody got in line, hugging and kissing. And as I said, there was one person, see, when he got in line for the third time he took his tie off and undid the buttons. I wouldn't recognize him. And I said, didn't I say goodbye to you and hug and kiss you?

Yes, I was hoping you wouldn't recognize it, said David McDonald, you know.

And then they even got so funny they turned to each other and started to hug and kiss each other. They were hysterical. Why? Because there was this relief in them this relief of feeling free to express love my presence had released a pattern a subconscious pattern now here we're getting to one of those main points so that even though I tried to restrain myself physically the pattern was so deep and so strong that they caught it like an adorable a beautiful epidemic we should have more of them it should sweep the universe and because they were receptive because they were ready because they had the capacity for this response it just developed into the most beautiful hysterical love feast and our brothers and sisters in New Zealand believe me they're just just they're just beautiful beyond description and they are eternally grateful that they were shown how to release this pent-up feeling so that they could feel free to express lovingness all right now then an initiate has to be working on that you see what I have apparently from what others told me I had to try to work on the reverse but as you see it didn't work. Once you put Divine Love in charge of you and experience and become part, that which sustains, when that becomes the essence of your heart, it is the power of powers and nothing is going to destroy it. No, people will not destroy it, enemies will not destroy it. There are people foolish enough to think that they're their enemies, when some people are that foolish, they're just immature.

Nothing is going to destroy that because the lower levels can't reach divine love. And when a person has divine love, it's the divine love that will conquer in the area where people have developed the ability to respond to it. Remember that.

So don't make the mistake of doing what I did when I was 17 or so. I decided I'm just going to do nothing but ooze love all the time, and that way why a certain person or group of people who I thought needed to learn to love me, and I was yearning to be loved by this particular individual, I thought I'll just emanate so much love that of course love conquers all, and this person will just be overwhelmed and then I'll be loved and everything will be harmony and beauty and so I just kept projecting love and feeling love and oozing love and as all this cussing and this and the other things took place, I just silently kept saying, I love you, you are child of divine love, I am child of divine love, we are child of divine love. Boy, you never saw anyone work as hard at a thing as I did.

At 17 I had as much focus as I have today if not more so and you know nothing happened no something did happen this particular person got worse something did happen whatever was hellish in the nature got more hellish says no so something did happen so what did I do I said it's a lot of baloney it doesn't work it doesn't work I gave it a fair chance I thought love I felt love I projected love and it didn't work it didn't work and I thought it through very seriously before I decided I wasn't sure whether I should become an agnostic or an atheist, you know. I just, it was quite, quite a tough time for me. But you see, what I didn't know, and this is what we all must understand, there are those who are not able yet to receive and respond to that level. Is it wasted energy? No because the more we can continue projecting the love it will return to us even if they can't receive it but if we start projecting hate what do you think comes back now these patterns of projection of hate of irritation of hostility will listen to the TV or radio and we'll hear about this and that and and we'll just start working ourselves up, and we'll use words that shouldn't be used, at least in polite society, but we figure we're home, who'll hear us?

Look, let me tell you, subconsciously, everybody hears you.

Really, I promise you it is so. It is so. You know, you don't really cuss in secret, you don't hate in secret, really. You don't. It just seems like it, and that's the greatest delusion of all. And so we have to realize that transmutation of the subconscious patterns for the initiates...

Look, it's essential, if it isn't that you want to be comfortable, just that you don't get found out, because there's no hiding. There's really no hiding, not in that deeper realm. It's just a temporary cover-over here.

And as I've often said, when we drop our physical bodies, what we have habitually permitted ourselves to think and feel is what we look like the beautiful more beautiful in the sun and moon and stars or ugliest sin then we really have to go to work to become beautiful and you know it's terrible not to be beautiful every one of you have an obligation to God, to yourselves, and to me, because I like beauty, and to each other, to be beautiful. But by beautiful you know what I mean. And beauty definitely has the the power that remains. Now the subconscious patterns of hate though, of irritation, of anger, you know, just, you know, grinding the teeth. The world is in a terrible frame. Oh, how horrible, how horrible it is. Look at those animals. Look at those monsters. Look at those. Are they human? Something should be done about them. They ought to be killed.

They ought to be shot. They ought to be locked up, or they ought to be this or that, or, you know, and we go on and on and on. Some of us may be. I hope not, but we do. There's, that's a tendency. Now, what are we doing? We are falling into the patterns that are the easiest patterns to become a part of and to feed and be fed by, because they are shared by the lowest level of the pattern world mass mind of humanity. And the initiate has to be careful not to work or become part of or to accept that level it'll hit you over and over again but you know there's a difference between becoming aware of it and saying ah ah no you don't you know or feeding into it or let's take fear there's another one we were talking about anger and gnashing of teeth let's talk about fear a little bit in the same way patterns of fear everybody is insecure up to a point for the simple reason that when you're in a physical body you're just simply in danger period it's part of the way we evolve there was only a fool would march out on foot of the freeway you know and you have to be on guard this is part of the development of awareness and discrimination and we get into situations that are partially or to a large degree dangerous you know in many ways all right now many of us start feeding into these energies more and more and what do we do we feed the patterns of this pattern world the feed the patterns of fear of insecurity now if we're going to feed fear if we're going to feed insecurity patterns and you know what I mean by feeding them we allow ourselves to think about them and we feed them with our thoughts if we feel afraid we hunt for reasons and for people you know we just really start pouring all this mental substance stuff into these patterns to give them more and more life and therefore power over our environment and us well pouring these patterns of fear then or feeding these patterns of fear what occurs basically in us is that we develop the backlashes of our own fear first of all we pour it into the rest of the mass mind, which is very unkind to do for humanity, and then we also naturally are pouring it into our own personal sphere that we are evolving and have taken in hand as an issue. Now this fear is one of the most devilishly devastating things, because fear is saying in essence, I don't believe that I'm in the hands of God or the higher soul.

That's what it's saying in essence. So when we permit fear beyond the normal being on guard, you know, with things to take place, we are really claiming something, materialism, and we are in a way disclaiming God without realizing we're doing this. And when we go into patterns of fear for say our physical welfare whether it be in terms of something that has to do with illness or something that has to do with a financial condition if we keep feeding into this fear and focus down on it what we're doing is deliberately working with destruction instead of construction and then we say why does this happen to me once you have gotten to a certain point in evolution you've got to take your own evolution in hand and transmute the subconscious patterns. The difference between a truly advanced adept and an initiates is that a truly advanced adept has learned to transfer and it hasn't been learned overnight. You have to practice it. Has learned to transfer the identification to that holy guardian angel that's just above that sephirah we were talking about. If you want to look at the tree, that's Tarot Key 14 that was read to you about on the Book of Tokens.

Has transferred identification there. All the lessons you receive through the mail are aimed at giving you these different symbolic ways and methods of bringing your identification up to that Higher Self so it will guide you so that it will get the stronger. One of my beloved disciples called me a week ago and said, oh I am the victim of creeping consciousness. I said, you are? That sounds serious. Yes, I'm feeling terrible. I said, my poor darling baby brother, other child mine who did it to you he said the hell of it is I'm quoting you know I wouldn't use the word hell otherwise he said the hell of it is I did it to myself I said boy I love you I love you because always it's somebody else isn't it you know people who are paranoid always call all other people paranoid. Did you know that? And so I said, boy, I love you. Now tell me how you did it to yourself, my poor darling. He said, that's what I wanted to hear. I said, precious one, when you do it to yourself, it hurts just as much. Precious one, I love you I'm sorry you're suffering but I'm so happy that you're not having to accuse anybody else he said oh I could have accused plenty of other people especially one except I thought of my teacher and I thought uh-uh I don't dare get in trouble with Ann she'll waggle her finger at me you know there isn't that nice you know you get people afraid of your nice little waggling finger. It's a constructive waggle. And he said the thing that I said, all right, now tell me what you did. He said, well, there was this SOB. I said, a what? Oh, well. There was this young soul. I said, that's better.

Said there was this young soul who gave me a bum check uh something I sold him that was very that was very valuable the check bounced and he said I got after him to get the payment and he's been giving me a bum's rush and finally I got mad he came in and all of a sudden I felt myself lose control he said I watched it I lost control and I raged I called him names and I threatened him and I raged it was something awful he said and I thought I was being very righteous because after all he did something wrong I said he certainly did something wrong he said anyway he said I'm sick he said the backlash has been terrible he said physically mentally emotionally then he said all kinds of psychic hell poured in on me he said just I've been overcome with it with just as though the million demons have taken charge of me I said and so they have you gave them the power didn't you he said that's just it that's that's why I said I did it to myself I said he said and I'd never known this had you not pointed it out to me over and over over again. And he said, but I'm, and I'm suffering for it. He said, boy, talk about being victimized by creeping consciousness. He said, this is really quite something. Your consciousness expands, you know. And he said, it looks to me like you can't afford certain things that you were able to afford earlier. I said, that's right. You sure can't afford it. You can't afford the kind of emotions you were able to afford when you were younger. A baby can afford to have hysterics, but not an adult. In fact, the baby might even get itself fed an extra bottle of milk with hysterics. But you see, that's a pattern outworn. If you try it as an adult, then you get your comeuppances until you learn that you've got to grow up. You've got to wash out the old patterns to form the new ones. So So then the same adorable disciple called me just a couple of days ago and he said, I called you to tell you you were right.

I said, well, I said, look, it's not necessary to make a long-distance call to tell me that.

He said, no, he said, you told me that it is possible to so retrain your consciousness, to watch yourself, that in the very act of a negative emotion or thought coming in, you can snip it in the bud so that it'll happen automatically, provided you keep that portion of your attention on guard and give it the snap.

That's what I call it. You can call it many things, that snap, to hand the control upstairs. Stairs that is to the holy guardian angel he said well I had reason to get as angry because I did that time when the demons got hold of me and really had a ball with me he said because I gave them the power he said but this time he said I've been practicing that I quite a disturbed at the terrible physical as well as the most mental emotional psychic psychic repercussions I had from losing my control. He said, so this time, he said, I did what you told me to do. I quickly, in the midst of seeing this occur, I jumped my consciousness to the Holy Guardian Angel and I discovered that automatically, without my having to use any real other effort except that automatically my emotions were kept under full control and I was able to handle the situation with the proper kind of righteous indignation, not with the destructive kind of emotional anger.

Now, are you getting the picture of what the transmutation of subconscious patterns is and must become for initiates? Naturally, we miss out sometimes, we make mistakes, we don't do it quite right, but this is the vital secret. Also the same disciple said to me, I now understand, Ann, why you said that you just really don't know what it means to become angry unless you've given yourself permission to become angry because the situation warrants it. He said, boy, with your power, if you got angry, God help everybody!" I said, yes, and I said, as every one of our beautiful, adorable members, our brothers, our sisters, become aware of this, they'll realize that each of us, each step we take, we can must afford to indulge our negative. We can't afford to say, cheer up. Things can get worse, as some people do.

We can't afford to use negative patterns even as a joke. We can't afford to let our minds feed fears, hatreds, bitterness, blaming of others. We can afford nothing except love. And you know, it's love is the most inexpensive thing in the world. You know, if you're spending a lot of money now, it's being Christmas and all. I'll tell you, if you want to feel really rich, analyze, Analyze, think deeply, meditate, and start thinking, what am I giving this and that person in the way of love? Now, if you want to pour some love into just a little ten-cent item, you'll have more appreciation. And if somebody thinks that's skinflint, they didn't deserve the ten-cent item even, do they?

Because they've put a material, a bargaining basis, haven't they, on a gift? And in the same manner this love. Love feeds us.

Love nourishes us and we feed and nourish others with love. It is easy to love.

Furthermore, it's just simply pleasanter to live when you love. Don't give me the excuses people aren't lovable. Babies are lovable.

Everybody is lovable. When you truly love, there's the compassion. You don't have to like everybody, as we say. Sure, there are a lot of personalities that are obnoxious.

I grant it. We don't have to develop intimate relationships with obnoxious personalities.

Or if we have them, if we're smart, we'll do something about changing it. Because obnoxious personalities are simply very young. Naturally we're not obnoxious never but I don't think we really are not in those ways because this is a talk about very infantile levels indeed the point is to love doesn't come by itself just like transmutation of patterns do not occur by themselves and yet they become automatic if we remember to reach up to to that upstairs Holy Guardian Angel. Now, when you leave the temple today, you're in for this hectic time from now till all of these Christmas things. I'd like you to take out of the temple with you and to keep it with you until at least the end of this Christmas rush. Then maybe you'll make a habit pattern of it and decide to keep it permanently. I'm hoping you will. What I'd like you to do is every time you feel pressured about anything, jump your consciousness upstairs to that holy guardian angel and say look the infinite riches and the infinite energy of the infinite universe is there it's mine if I remember to reach for it and I will be able to do that which I need to do I will be able to organize what I am supposed to be organizing and I will not be wasting my energy wringing my hands about all I've got to do because you know you're going to wear yourself out so fast that nothing will get done as we know this is a beautiful way to avoid accomplishing constructive things reach for that holy guardian angel when you find yourself caught in traffic and that's a rough one you know my beautiful adorable man he gets caught in traffic at this time of year something like two and a half hours is after a 10-hour day as an engineer, and yet he comes home looking like an archangel.

You know, you talk about a strong soul that really hangs on to that holy guardian angel. It's doable. And our precious Reverend Helen Owen, before she moved out here, she had a very long trip she took every day, and she'd get caught that way. And she discovered it's a wonderful time to practice her chanting and to do certain muscular exercises that are just mentally done, you know, for strengthening certain other muscles. So she decided to use it constructively. And in that way, you save yourself from getting colitis, ulcers.

You save yourself from becoming obnoxious to others. You save yourself from losing your friends and your loved ones and from getting yourself disliked and you emanate something positive for your own evolution and the evolution of others. This is the point. So you're going to be under and you are under these extra tensions. Now it's true. Don't get caught up in the pattern of the materialism of others.

Guard yourself against it. Don't get caught up in a hatred of the season just because others are misusing it would you hate love because somebody misuses love would you hate goodness because somebody misuses the idea you know you cannot afford to do that so keep yourself with that Holy Guardian Angel and remind yourself that you want to walk with the spirit of Christmas you want to walk with this rejoicing that the Sun of life and light is born and insist I shall hold myself up there and see all of the beauty of the silver glimmering golden and silver star shining down in and through you in light and magic and see it is feeding you and sing rejoice sing hymns and sing Christmas carols to yourself you know praise the Lord bless His holy name you You know, some of them are real wonderful. Nothing wrong with them. It's the spirit and the heart that we use.

Make yourself sing rejoicing songs and make yourself love out and send love to all the people around you that are on their way to all their Christmas celebrations and the loves and blessings. Don't let yourself, guard yourself against getting caught up in all of the miseries, you know, the nonsense, and then if it gets a little hard, just come running back to temple here and do it regularly because believe me together we do more than any of us can do singly as you know and I think that should be a word to the wise enough for this morning
