Really, so it's nice to have other things on hand to help.

So, our topic for this morning has to do with justice, as you know, Tarot Key Number 11, which you will see right to the side of you.

And we see a figure here called Justice, Tarot Key Number 11, holding the scales of justice. And, you know, interestingly enough, we have just now entered the sign of Vibra. We are just now still in the energy of the autumnal equinox.

And that balancing symbol is rather interesting, since the equinox is the one period, both autumnal and vernal or spring equinox, when day and night are exactly equal all over the planet. The balance, the pause, the scales being held. This is what you might call the cosmic balance that some people call justice, but others being tied to forms of thinking and feeling that are a little immature, only think of justice as something painful.

And this I hope we will not be holding in mind in that way, at least not as much as we did by the time we're through with this morning's talk.

So, the tarot key that we will be talking about, some of the meanings that surround it, and things we are calling for from the inner portion of our being.

This has to deal basically with the cabalistic interpretations and the way they affect our consciousness or the powers that are involved in this tarot key which are our powers whether we know it consciously or not we are dealing then with an attempt to try to understand and utilize a group of symbols in order to be able to help ourselves into an awareness of this balance into a greater understanding and practice of whatever is meant by justice and of course that will need a great deal of analysis in itself and to try to understand how we can enhance this particular attitude or point of view within ourselves so so that it will be a power. Now remember, when we talk about a power or power in the Western mystery training system, we are not talking about the kind of power that a mass mind has in mind. We are not talking about the kind of power that usually tyrannizes and takes advantage of others due to its place or position.

We are talking about the greatest power that there is in the universe, available to us if we choose to use it, the power to become aware of our own thinking, feeling nature, the power to become aware of our own personality, the power to become aware enough so that we know what we ought or ought not to do with it. Notice the Tarot key is called judgment. And of course there again as well as justice and this judgment although it is given to another Tarot key as a name in the book of tokens we hear about it as judgment in all of the learning we do we realize that the amount of judgment we have has to deal and has to do with the forces that involve an interaction, a way of knowing how to become awakened to the true judgment from the previous false concepts of error. Now to become truly one who understands justice, as I've mentioned, we have to recognize before all else perhaps, that the power to see justice is something that the Lord of Life evolves in us via the meaning of this particular Hebrew Chaldean letter.

And the meaning of that letter is ox goad. Now what is an ox goad? Well very very obviously it's something that goads us.

The ancient way of getting work done was by goading the ox into working. And the ox is a very lumbering little creature. You say, little? Yes, everything that is below man's evolution, even if it's the size of a whale, is a little creature. It's a way of saying, this is my little brother, or my little sister. It's a way of seeing other forms of life as being our responsibility. You know, the way we feel about a child. Some grown-up people are certainly far more infantile, I think, than some infants. Don't you agree? And so this is the idea isn't size. The idea is age perhaps, spiritual age. The The idea, it has to do then with maturity.

And of course, only those who are what we may call older souls, only those who therefore have spiritual maturity, are the ones who would be able to have more of an inkling as to what justice involves and what power really is and is not.

Now the power to rule ourselves is the greatest power there is it's as simple as that and indeed those who become more and more an integral part of the work of BoTA come to recognize the fact that this is the one great work and indeed there is naught else. Too many of us at times, at least we do go through some of these phases, I suppose it is most necessary, we go through the phase where our particular sense of justice makes us decide what we've got to do is reform the world. And I certainly did. Oh, you should have seen me. I was good at it too.

I mean it. Making my effort, I'm not saying that reforming it, making my effort to reform the world via my own ideas as to what reformation would or would not be or should or should not be.

And I think it's a very good experience to go through to recapitulate in order to discover that the one thing we simply are not really able to do, much as we want to, much as we long to, we may want to out of benevolent reasons, and we may want to out of very unevolved reasons and drives. Although naturally those who have the unevolved reasons would know that their reasons are just. It's just the other person who has unevolved reasons. I'm sure we always feel that other people are unjust as compared to ourselves in any case the ability to rule ourselves has to come before we even remotely are prepared to rule other things properly, or shall we say, justly. Now let's try to see what justice is or is not, or what it might or might not be. As I pointed out before, too many of us think of justice as something very unpleasant. I know I certainly did at one time.

When I first started in with the work of BOTA and its various extraordinary teachings, as I watched myself and went through the disciplines of awakening each tarot key within myself as a power, as a development within my consciousness, I used to notice that when I said the pattern on the trestle board to myself, I always had a little slight sense of disturbance when I got to the part of the pattern where it said I look upon... Haven't most of you found that? You know, that I look upon all the conditions of my life as the undeviating justice.

How does that go again exactly?

I recognize the manifestation of undeviating justice in all the circumstances of my life.

And I used to get a little, you know, as you learn to study yourself, that this is a power, it is a glorious, it is a human power. It is the power in us that is of God. It is that which makes us begotten of God, indeed. Indeed, as we practice looking at our personality, watching its thinking, feeling responses, in order to learn how to apply the forces of occultism, the forces of consciousness, to the areas that we see are required, I have noted that practically everyone has a bit of disturbance.

There are a few who said they don't, and perhaps they don't.

But that would be quite astonishing to me because I think that somewhere deep underneath all of us know that if we all really got our just desserts, perhaps it's unconscious.

If we really got our just desserts, it would be very painful and things would just really fly apart and explode. And so the one thing we want is not to get our just desserts deep, deep down now we may not have conscious awareness of this sometimes but I think that a little analysis would show us that perhaps there's a part of us that has more of the conscious awareness than we realize or recognize and I for one have always been in favor of escaping the just desserts if I can get away with it I don't think I haven't tried we always have to try everything I think that's the only way we discover what law is undeviating how else will we know you see, we have to experience these things indeed the difference between an old and a young soul I think should definitely be recognized pretty much in this fashion an old or mature soul has just made all the mistakes and experienced the undeviating justice and therefore has become wise in the ways.

The little baby isn't bothering me, dear.

Is the baby bothering anybody? No.

She's not disturbing us, sweetheart. I mean, if the baby, if you were going out for fear, the baby's disturbing us.

Unless there's something, other reason, that the baby requires some care, some delicate handling that's different but I don't want you to feel tense oh well in that case if the baby requires any extra time or attention or care that's different I just wanted you to feel relaxed enough not to think the baby's disturbing anybody that's all he just Now then, the handling of our awareness of just desserts, you might say, this is one of the most difficult things, I believe, in the spiritual self-discipline that we embark upon in the work of this Western Mystery Training.

Because, for example, we do all hold certain mass mind memories which bring certain degrees of guilt.

In other words, we've certainly all done some of the most god-awful things, some of the most immature things we've certainly all been just about every immature and therefore every obnoxious personality you can imagine way way back and that naturally with us it was very far back as long as we'll feed push it far enough back we'll be more willing to accept it don't you think and then once Once we change our sense of time, why then we'll be able to more adequately deal with whatever we find is still trying to sneak in on us in this present incarnation. At any rate, this recognition within ourselves that certainly we would have to have made the various mistakes in order to develop any kind of wisdom at all, in order to have that sense of discrimination.

Once we start to recognize this within ourselves and therefore become willing to see what else is there to do in order to recognize the undeviating justice in all the circumstances of my life, we become more ready to see the divine justice in another light, in an entirely different light now, there are many, many souls indeed very beautiful souls who have lost all faith in the divine purpose because of the question of justice, you know I certainly was one of them I insist I was a beautiful self although it wasn't showing up very much as yet I wasn't wearing very nice clothes over the hidden beauty at the time but I certainly went through a time, through a period where the anguish you've heard me mention this very often indeed I think but I went through that anguish that tearing anguish where I decided there could be no God if there were design within creation it would have to be a demon because only a demon could create the kind of universe where babies, helpless innocent babies suffer, where people go hungry where people are torn and rent where cruelty exists exists. Only a demon, I thought, could remotely be responsible if there were design, if creation was really created by consciousness or a consciousness or a God. Because to see justice is absolutely Absolutely a must to every soul who has faith, true faith.

I don't mean the kind of faith that is blind. Perhaps the blind faith is good at a certain portion of one's life, but it doesn't serve the purpose that we need here. And perhaps that's why justice has often been pictured as we're being blindfolded, you know, with the scales. But these people who have pictured justice as being blindfolded, they're going to find out. We have news for them. Here or hereafter, they're going to discover that justice isn't blindfolded at all. Still, it looks like it. It seems that way.

When we view life from the objective point of view, when we try to interpret life from what we see around us when we see uh people being unjustly treated people who never had a chance in the world because we certainly couldn't be excused to say what kind of god is this that's a demon uh that's nonsense you can't say a demon created the universe and created life so it's all happenstance it's accident I'm an atheist at least that's how I said it but with I didn't say it I I wept it in my soul indeed and as far as I was concerned if I could not see justice there could be no divine creator that was it now you can well understand then that since I never do anything halfway, I was pretty intense about that idea. And I went through a period of approximately three years where my religious atheism certainly drove quite a few people a little crazy.

I don't know how I even kept a single friend during that time because I was so determined to prove my point that I read every book I got hold of proving atheism and disproving every kind of thinking, believing that I thought existed that would seem to indicate otherwise.

And then, all of a sudden, I didn't win an argument, as a few of you have heard.

And you see, I wasn't accustomed to that. I was accustomed to winning an argument, at least intellectually, and I was still very much too young to realize that that gets you nowhere either.

So I was stopped cold by a very dear friend who I had thought was intelligent, but I was really stopped cold when he indicated a horrible, stupid, superstitious point of view by babbling something about karma and reincarnation and the cult isn't at me I thought those words were anathema to me at the moment since I was in my very intensive period of having thrown out everything at that time with this depth of pain pain within me and this inability to see justice and this yearning for justice, which every soul has deep down, no matter what they may be thinking consciously. So this stopped me cold, you see, because all of a sudden my mind was presented with with an idea that perhaps, if it was true, would be knocking out from under me my reason for being an atheist.

In other words, if reincarnation did exist, if, then justice might be something other than I thought. And that's when I really went back to my original researches that I'd been going in for even through childhood, hunting up the meaning of every religion and enrolling myself in at least four different Sunday schools, you know, different religions, wanting to find out what is truth and why is everyone sure their spiritual thinking, their religion is right and everybody else's is wrong?

Each one thought they're going to heaven, everybody else is going to hell, unless they believed as they did, and this didn't strike me as at all right, not as a child, certainly not as an adult.

So there again, my sense of justice was involved. Now, our sense of justice sometimes can run away with us, and of course it takes great wisdom to use justice properly and we never have that much wisdom even when we're old souls to begin with because there's this recapitulation that all our souls require in order to bring up the wisdom that is lying there awaiting its next step, its next development so I started to realize that yes Yes, once I started the research, and I certainly got verifications to a fantastic degree, but what I realized, beyond all else, was that if it was proven out that everything in the universe was an inexorable type of karmic return, now that doesn't mean necessarily painful, you understand, but that everything in the universe was a response and was adhering to a universal law and that therefore if it was true that pain was the result of simply not understanding the universal law yet and in learning it naturally, feeling one's way, we make the mistakes, we fall and we fall.

Now lots of us like to call that being simply evil. I think there's a great difference between deliberate evils and the evils we commit out of the ignorant misunderstanding of cosmic law. There is a difference, but pain comes when law is broken.

This we certainly all know.

No matter how spiritually inclined any of us may be, no matter how devoted, no matter how dedicated, if we break certain laws, we suffer consequences. For example, no matter how spiritual we may be, if we disregard the laws of proper nutrition, although some of us may have stomachs like iron, even iron corrodes and gets rusty and finally is not what it was.

So even though some people may seem to be getting away with the breaking of certain laws, eventually the balancing of those scales that has to do with instruction which is part of the meaning of this Tarot key cabalistically the effect of the breakage of the law or the effect of understanding the law these things come about and then gradually we are taught the fact that we are taught indicates that the whole cosmic law the universal Universal law is a teaching type of experience, teaching from a level beyond the physical, because consciousness certainly is not physical and could not be physical. It has what appears like a physical brain that it uses as an instrument for a special kind of experience. But consciousness itself is beyond time and beyond space. And when we start getting an inkling of this we start seeing we start analyzing we start to recognize that no matter what level we look upon there is always this imbalance of those scales and then the swinging to the opposite direction in order to bring around a new equilibrium equilibrium now justice as such then should never be thought of as punishment if we start seeing justice as more of an equal librating of forces which is the ox code of the Lord of Life in order in order to instruct us in how to develop the powers that lie within our own being, we will be able to more easily overcome or gain power over those parts of our nature which still require transmutation and which lead us into painful experiences.

Now, of course, we have to understand that painful experiences are not what they seem either.

The fear of pain, I think, often is the thing that makes us afraid of whatever it is we think about when we think about justice. But you see, isn't it just as much justice, for example, if someone is kind to me, I am kind to them also. Isn't that justice? As much as if someone is unkind, then I, say, decide I shall be unkind to them. Let's analyze a little bit about this idea of justice. Lots of people unconsciously express a desire for power or tyranny, calling it justice, as I pointed out. And this is done usually in such a way as to create quite a bit of havoc in personal relationships. For example, I have seen some precious souls who, because, say, they feel that somebody has done them an injustice, justice will say something like, well, if I let them get away with it, by golly, they are only going to get stronger in their evil, and so I'm going to put a stop to it. And after all, that is what we're supposed to do. But when they say, I'm going to put a stop to it there's usually a tone of voice and it goes more like this I'll fix this you see all right now no one can apply justice to life to themselves or to others when that emotion resides in the heart the ability the capacity to be truly just must go with benevolence, for justice does not really exist.

And what is benevolence? You see, we often think benevolence is letting people get away with murder, but it isn't. This is, again, something we all must recognize if we're going to be able to be at peace, live with the joy of the concept of what justice is and is not. Benevolence wants everyone and everything to be whatever the Lord of Life or the Higher Self wishes them to be. In other words, it is accepting the divine will as being greater, vaster, deeper than the personal expression of it which is still not completely completely matured, so that the ability or the capacity to be just towards others actually must have the ingredient of benevolence in the heart.

And the benevolence in the heart, again, I repeat, has to do with wishing others well.

Now suppose we have an enemy.

I suppose all of us have had an enemy or maybe some of us have enough enemies where we have several locks on the door only they haven't caught up with us yet, you know, to put us away and so we, there are plenty of paranoids, you know, loose who somehow no one takes the time or trouble to realize they're very sick and so they go through life with so many enemies I knew one such intimately and this was the most pathetic soul you can imagine I mean she talked about her enemies all the time and her children thought my how amazing that there should be so many enemies and even occasionally helped her to protect herself from a few of them but these enemies incidentally were quite something this poor soul who had all these enemies was always wishing all her troubles on her enemies and sometimes in great detail very succinct and occasionally the whole spirit, the exaltation that would come over this poor soul when in wishing the enemies the things that this poor soul thought the enemies should have you would see there was more and more emotion came into it.

Sometimes she'd go into detail. They should walk on raw wounds, the wounds that will not heal, you understand, and they should drop dead, but not yet, because first they have to suffer enough to roll in agony, etc. And the relish, the relish, it's funny, isn't it? And yet it's sad. But you see, we have to be able to see both sides.

Now, what made this poor soul feel this way? She was very ill indeed. But when we look at an extreme, it helps us better to see that which is there and not recognized.

Now, in regard to an enemy then, I'd like to remind us all that the teachings in the Bible and the teachings in occultism make a very definite point of the fact that we should do good to those who despitefully use us.

Now those of us who have this touch of revenge or stronger than that of course can always rationalize this revengeful nature by assuring ourselves that we are the arm of God bringing justice to this benighted soul but you see the very fact something in us is taken up with this dramatization indicates that benevolence does not live in our heart.

And if benevolence is not going to be living in our heart, what occurs is that we bring ourselves ever more sorrow, as well as others.

Because to do good to those who despitefully use us is not what it seems.

Now, too many people who are the appeasers, and, you know, the negative side of Libra could be appeasing too much. I know I, being a very early Scorpio, don't run away.

They're not quite as bad as some people think.

Being the early decadate of Scorpio, I have a great deal of wash over of the Libran energies in my basic expression of livingness within and through my personality. And this Libran tendency at times to appease is something I noted within my nature very long ago. Indeed I noted it when I was a child this tendency to appease in areas where it should not be done incidentally although again I noticed I would appease where it was very wise to appease so there again we have to come to a recognition that the ability to discriminate where to appease and where not and the sword you know is a symbol for discrimination that this figure holds the ability to know where one appeases and where one doesn't appease has to do with the wisdom and the depth of discrimination and the insight now when we appease uh evil it is true that we can make ourselves a partner of the evil and actually uh making ourselves a partner of the evil we feed and strengthen evil and this we certainly should not do too many people use the idea of do good to them who despitefully use you who have this need to have peace around them they you too many people use this to permit certain kinds of evil to go unchecked so again discrimination symbol of the the sword is a very vital part of the ability to know what justice is and is not, and just how or where it could or should be applied and not, and in what manner.

Now, I've had quite a few of my nearest and dearest ones get annoyed with me more times than I like to tell.

By annoyed, I mean really annoyed. Sometimes I've heard them fighting with me mentally, because you know there's no thought that is really as secret as we think and certainly when you charge it with emotion it goes straight like an arrow very much like an arrow and a sword and it goes right into the heart of the person that we're being that emotional against or outraged with and if we could see that inside of our hearts I think that that perhaps would teach us more completely how and why not to do these things. That is, the anger within ourselves because we think somebody else is being either too easy, you know, we'll call it by other names, we'll say they're being too easy or they're being an appeaser or they're permitting evil to go unchecked. We will always find the words that are right for ourselves. But you see, my loves, when we have benevolence in our hearts, and we have to work at developing it, when we have benevolence in our hearts, the one thing that is not going to happen to us is the ability to be influenced by the report of one side of any story at all.

And naturally, it does drive people crazy.

Because when people come to us, any of us, they come to you and say, you know, so-and-so said this and that against you. Or, and then, and, or, so-and-so said this and that about or against the work. Or, and, so-and-so said this and that against your child. Now if they said it against my child or dog they'd be in trouble that's another matter entirely there I insist on being on the arm of justice and teaching them how to evolve so never say anything against my child my grandchildren or my dog or incidentally that gorgeous man that I want all of you to go up and admire I tell you the way he looks I just want to sit and meditate on him you know, that beautiful suit he's wearing green which is the color of this Tarot key so, I mean, now that we I just thought we ought to understand how objective I am you know, my scientific response is unwavering and I don't know how to be prejudiced in relation to anybody or anything you see if other people are prejudiced I'm always objective and will unto those who try to tear apart anyone I love and I happen to love everybody that is my spiritual family so here we're getting to the point and I don't care who it is a member of my spiritual family can have plenty of unevolved characteristics.

Just like my little dog, I can assure you, does many naughty things.

And so do my little grandsons, and certainly so did my little daughter when she was tiny, and she certainly does now.

And remember, I have grandchildren. I always want to remind you, we were both child brides.

We've been younger and younger child brides the more years have passed by, and my daughter is cooperating with me, up to a point, although occasionally we have to have an argument. She thinks I'm claiming too much youth there, but I refuse to admit this.

So, you know, she's being biased.

So, when we love, when we really love, we are able to see that in the beloved that is still immature, mature, that which still needs growing up, that which is capable of lying, stealing, killing, and don't think we aren't all capable of it if we are pressed hard enough, because no matter who or what we are, every bridge has its breaking point if you put that extra extra ounce of weight over it.

Remember that.

Everything, no matter how strongly built it is, you place that extra poundage on it and it will snap or crack.

And certainly, therefore, every personality has some degree or area of pressure at which it can snap. And when we know this about ourselves we know it about all creatures and when we know this about all creatures the last thing in the world we are going to do is to honor own or because anyone else no matter how much we love the anyone else because anyone else is trying to manipulate our emotions into getting mad and outraged because isn't that what it amounts to?

And when we get mad because somebody isn't somehow accepting or behaving like we think they should after hearing about this or that terrible thing, when we get outraged about it, if we stopped and analyzed it, Wouldn't it be because perhaps part of it, way deep underneath, part of what's upset in us, way deep underneath, is that that person didn't permit himself or herself to have their emotions manipulated?

We have been wanting them to go what we think is the right or the just, or perhaps to prove, see, I am loyal.

Well it is loyal to want to be protective towards those we love yes and if we know someone we love has others that are out to hurt them or injure them because they are uninvolved it is the right thing to help protect them and even perhaps to make sure they know that they can protect themselves but that's different than wanting them then to do what we think they should do about it or act or react in the way we think they should act or react. You see, this is what makes the difference. If we find ourselves mentally fighting with that person, we should realize then we are upset because they are not permitting us to manipulate them. Now, of course, too many people are easily manipulated emotionally. This is true. But the person who has a really profound sense of justice will never be manipulated emotionally when that sense of justice is functioning and of course we all have different degrees of it we all slip, we all fall by the wayside from time to time but when we understand and realize alright, if this or that person, say is attempting to tear us down or is hooping it up or is not doing what is certainly what is right, when we within our own hearts can see and know that that person is under certain tensions and pressures, we feel more benevolent about it, even though there comes a time with some situations or conditions where it requires action.

Now remember when I was a child, well, I'm still a child, I was more of a child than I am today on the whole I was always a very patient aware child as children go I had this sense of justice was with me from the time I can remember and being a bookworm and very meditative as well as being extroverted when I was in the mood to be I spent a great deal of time with my own consciousness and buried in books. In fact, the major portion of my time through my entire childhood was in a meditative state and or with books and or writing poetry.

The other times I was getting in trouble. I mean, good trouble.

To keep myself balanced, you understand.

But I recall when I was a very small child having an adult who was caring for me at the time remarked that the amount of patience I was showing as something I was then something like a six or seven year old was all was practically inhuman and but she said it in such a way as to indicate it was praise so I thought that's fine I didn't know why she thought I was being that patient I was just trying to get something done then I don't I don't even remember what it was. I was a very small child. And on the whole, I was just about as good-natured a child, I believe, as one could imagine. But there were three people close in my life who did not think I was that. They thought I was a hellion, a loudmouth, and they said so in no uncertain terms. A hellion, a loudmouth, unevolved, unthinking, unfeeling I can't begin to tell you these three people had gotten the impact of my sense of justice small as I was when I found my back against the wall and my indignation was roused enough where I said this injustice has gone so far this is it I became a tornado and I had things to say that cut like a sword in other words right to the heart of the matter and people who are immature do not forgive those who with their tongue tell it like it is as our Our youngs just say, I love that expression, because that's exactly what I did.

I can tell you one instance, because it will show us something, was my poor stepmother. Now, actually, I was the poor stepchild.

Now, she very much resented my presence during the short time I lived with her and my father and the little half-sister. She very much resented my presence, and she was very careful to make every single moment of the period I stayed with her as hellish for me as possible so that I won't want to stay and that some of the details that people just simply wouldn't believe it she went to such extremes now I knew all about her background I knew all the secret details of her life because I was also a very alert little child who used to love to listen to the adults talk right on till midnight 1 and 2 a.m. and so I had information about her that nobody else had that's why they say scorpions make good detectives I guess it was just plain interest I knew because of interest even you're interested in others which I always was you gather information automatically without even really trying and so when the time finally came when the utmost and injustice hit at me young as I was just 10 and a half to 11 years old that first impact remember the attack was so so sharp and exact, even though it was mostly verbal, because the physical attack came from her to me, which naturally I fought back. But it was the verbal aspect, because I told it like it is, and this she couldn't stand. In fact, she couldn't stand it so much, I I told her what she was like, and this she couldn't take.

Now, as a child, of course, we could do these things, but now that we're a little grown-up, we shouldn't do that.

Because, you see, she naturally never forgave me. She wasn't mature enough.

And, as I said, no one is going to remotely be comfortable around someone who has seen through every surface, make-believe picture they've presented to others. So when I pointed out her viciousness, the jealousy, when I pointed out the fact that she was a desperate old maid willing to get any man, even a divorced man with three children, she didn't like that. But do you see what's implied here?

I was with my back to the wall felt I was being destroyed finally my sense of justice made my control snap and that taught me something later not that I have ever regretted what I did because I think when we spend too much time feeling guilty we are not able to correct whatever in ourselves needs correction the point is that as the years went on and I was able to analyze each and every aspect of experience in relationships and in the past I was able to see how consistently this hatred that she held had had to work how she had found it necessary to keep building images of me that were false because I saw her like she was and knew her motivations for what they were and I told her.

You see, knowing it and seeing it, I shouldn't have told her because we do not ever reform any other human being by saying to them, now what's wrong with you?

Is this that or that? And yet isn't this what we try?

We try to reform others and we can't and those of us who have a sense of justice will then go out sometimes and try to do it in a bigger way you know as I told you I have tried that too you know during I went through a couple of years at the proper age when you're a youngster you know and you decide the only way to reform the world is this or that way you try it and you discover why somehow it doesn't work now we never manage to reform another person we never manage to reform a husband or a wife we never manage to reform anybody and all we've done is waste a lot of energy we have not been working with the real spirit of the equilibrium we have not been working with what powers the Lord of Life has given us so in relationships particularly because if we can't handle it in our relationships we're not going to be able to handle it in any other area in our relationships one with another the most important thing we can do is learn to see the person like he or she is in other words their strengths, their weaknesses, and always keeping the weaknesses to ourselves.

And if we find that those particular weaknesses that relate to those that are close to us, if we find that they are impairing something, then perhaps we must do something. But there are ways to do it. When we just let ourselves lose control of ourselves, and attack, and let our immature emotions run away with us, the immature emotions roused.

We are the ones who suffer the most, really. By hurting another, we hurt ourselves, because you see there isn't that separativeness that seems to be. And all of karma is really the things we have cast out returning.

We've cast out lovingness it returns if we pour out hatred it returns if we project irritability in other words, whatever problems we may be having the one thing we in occultism teach ourselves is never to let ourselves take it out on another human being because that's not just, is it?

And you see justice has to do with being so careful not to take out our own immaturities on another and call it by other names even though we certainly must act in some areas but again I reiterate to act with hatred in the heart as for example I did with my stepmother as a small child makes us do and say the things that will not remedy the situation and indeed if there was any way to remedy it this guarantees that it will not be remedied not at this time, not in this cycle we will only have weakened that in us which needs strengthening so what we have to learn to do is to correct other people in ways when we are forced to that is if it has to do with our requirement or if it's within our province we have to learn to correct other people with benevolence in our heart now if our hearts are benevolent other people will accept what we say because we're not going to be saying what's wrong with you is so-and-so or how dare you do this and sometimes if we're extra mad we can say well how the hell etc etc with every cuss word we can think of and a few extra we can even uh you know dream up uh this is the sort of thing we are throwing darts into our own heart even though perhaps it's in the other heart also we are not accomplishing what we want justice rules the universe everything balances itself Every condition that we have is really the ox goad of God, the Higher Self, pushing us, driving us, and yet at the same time directing us in order to help us to teach ourselves how to regulate, how to handle life situations.

Situations. Let's then make up our minds, let's devote the depth of our soul to this idea, this thought. If we could do this, my darlings, the beauty, the beauty that we would start recognizing in the midst of everything is beyond calculation. Let's, in the depth of our hearts and the depths of our souls, make up our minds that we're going to develop the power of this Tarot key in such a way that we're going to have that sense of awareness that nothing is exactly what it seems. There's always the other side of the story.

Whatever one person, say, might report to us, another person might give us the opposite point of view, be willing to wait.

Patience isn't something that you get for free.

Patience is something that we develop within ourselves when we come to recognize the fact that every single thought, action, feeling, etc. has its reaction. Action and that everything we do therefore and think and feel we should bear in mind it has its consequences this is what you call relief learning how to handle the forces in such a way that you cancel out a bad karma because you don't by bad I mean painful karma because there's no such thing as bad karma. Painful karma is the result of some need that we have to grow.

And the pain is the goad, the thing that goads us into perfecting ourselves. So if we're experiencing pain in relation to any condition or situation, let's decide that we will say to ourselves, well, there is this aspect of my nature that still needs to gain more understanding and control.

And then in relation to other people, let's be aware of the same thing.

If we are going to let ourselves be manipulated emotionally, remember, we are lit before we start. And let's stop again trying to reform other people because we can't if we reform and reform means just that we read form make it to another shape that which is to be our future then by virtue of what it is we're doing now the benevolent heart no matter how much we have been injured by another the benevolent heart wants for that other the perfection of his soul and we do not deliberately go out to hurt anybody for their own good nor because we lose ourselves in anger or temper the benevolent heart makes the kind of karma that has insight and judgment the benevolent heart is the only heart that is able to handle power and the benevolent heart is the heart that the lord of life gives more and more power to the real power the power that transforms the universe so let's decide justice is benevolence and that we shall be benevolent all right I will now say
