Our talk for this morning is entitled Tarot, the Message of Peace.

And as you see, we have Tarot Key number two, called the High Priestess, up on the easel to help indicate some of the basic ideas we will discuss together in relation to peace. And we think perhaps we will surprise you in what we have to say in some ways. We hope that we will make a profound impression because as we shall see if there be conflict in the world I think that there will be no question in our hearts at least we so hope by the time we're through with our little talk this morning that every single one of us have aided have a abetted and have played our part in it, no matter where in the world it might exist.

Well, let's analyze for a moment what we mean by peace, and then let's analyze the ideas of peace in terms of Qabalah and the tarot, which is, after all, an aspect of the Qabalistic training meaning as we give it.

Peace is apparently the opposite of conflict. Nevertheless, it isn't exactly that, because there are many human beings who are able to be at peace in the midst of conflict. Peace, Peace, in actuality or in the final analysis, might be said to be the ability and capacity to accept oneself and to see what we are and what everyone else is in terms of relationship in our one universe, within the one universal life.

Because as we read to you from the gospel indicating the unruliness of the tongue and don't forget when we speak of the tongue and this is incidentally a very Qabalistic little excerpt we read to you from because in Qabalah remember that the 16th tarot key the letter pay assigned to that key is called the mouth as the organ of speech. And if you'll remember, that Tarot key has a tower on a high isolated cliff which has been struck by lightning from heaven, indicated also by the sun to the side of the lightning. In other words, it is the sun of heaven that has struck with lightning awakening and we see quite a storm and a very terrible situation the male and female figure have been thrown out of this tower of isolation this tower of babel shall we say and they are in the air they don't know what's going to happen to them their hair stands on end it's a very unhappy state and it incidentally it's called the second stage of spiritual unfoldment. The Tower of Babel is built by the unruly tongue, as indicated by the Qabalistic attribution. Nevertheless, always remember the tongue is the final expression of the thought, because everything begins with consciousness and and ends as an expression of consciousness.

Therefore, whatever we say, whatever we say, this is the final effect, or this is the expression of a thought, a feeling, an idea, or a correlation of several thoughts, feelings, and ideas.

And it goes out into the world, that is, it makes a connection when it is done in terms of the actual speech alone. It makes a connection, it makes an impact upon our fellow man, our husbands or our wives, whatever the relationships happen to be. And we have used a force. We have used indeed one of the most potent of forces because again Qabalah shows how potent this force is by attributing this particular Hebrew letter and this Tarot key to Mars and in astrology Mars is the action planet this drives us into activity of every kind and action remember always results from what we have been thinking feeling and also saying. For example, think of the tyrants who, through the use of speech, the use of the tongue, conditions and train human beings to hate that which is not a part of their own particular conditioning process or thinking. Let's take the example of Hitler, which is so well known to everyone. It was his power of speech, or at least what appeared like his power of speech, which was able to sway human beings into this fanatical hatred of anything and everything, which was not what it interpreted itself as being in terms of superiority.

Superiority. So they gave names, and here again is the danger, they gave names. You give a name to a thing and you think you know it, and it becomes something solid in consciousness, again the use of the tongue. And they gave a name to that which is superior, which they called the Aryan race. And they gave a name to that which is inferior, which they called the Jews, also the the Roman Catholics, also the Protestants. I mean, it grew and grew and grew.

And then in some strange, fantastic prestidigitation, they managed somehow to decide that the Japanese group amongst the Orientals also had the mystical title of Aryan. Somehow. There was a great deal of laughter, if you will recall, at that period. It, though it wasn't kept up very long because this became a little too ridiculous.

So, human beings become conditioned almost from the time they're born, not almost, they do, from the very moment they're born, before they're born as a matter of fact.

They start becoming conditioned more through the use of the tongue than almost any other power and yet this is so only because the tongue includes all the other various powers in its final expression this we must always remember what we say is a composite interrelated result of our thinking, our feeling, our being, our responses to life, our interpretation of life, and the conditions within which we are living.

Now then what are the esoteric aspects of this particular power which as you see we use so loosely and so dangerously consider the high priestess here remember in tarot she is assigned to the powers of subconsciousness she is assigned to memory Remember, to memory, within her resides the universal memory as well as all the personal memories which are our part of the universal memory. And her substance is indicated by the watery flow from her robe showing that the robe she wears, that is the robe subconsciousness wears that is, the substance of our subconsciousness is a fluidic, watery-like substance which flows out into life and it flows out into life as a power. It flows out into life as an influencing factor and it is in a sense both the influenced and the influencing.

So that again, if we consider it in terms of Qabalah and if we will look at that tarot key on the tree of life's position it connects the white circle on the very top of the tree down the middle to the yellow one so we can say of this tarot key that it connects the one, the indivisible because that is what the white circle indicates the one, the universal indivisible, yikida it is called in Hebrew and this is the connecting channel or force or type of consciousness which connects that with the yellow circle which is generic humanity and it is called in qabalah the uniting intelligence the uniting intelligence so that it is through our subconsciousness that we are in continuous fluidic connection with that vibrational area of ourselves which we might call the true universal I and that part of ourselves which we can call the ego the awareness of I which when it has evolved to its highest point of self-awareness becomes the Christ consciousness Well, it is this power which connects these two aspects of our beingness.

As the uniting intelligence, it keeps pushing our livingness into the experiences which are in terms of our interpretation of life. Because remember subconsciousness receives everything we interpret in terms of people experience environment and so on and subconsciousness then builds now the yellow circle there again if you will look on the tree we would like to remind you if we have not mentioned it to this group before that this is assigned by Qabalah to the image-making powers of consciousness. Image-making powers. And this is very important because we're going to start discussing it in terms of the Qabalistic understandings of peace and how we may work towards becoming a true expression of this. Incidentally, the pair of opposites assigned to this Tarot key, to this force, is called peace and strife. Peace and strife. So there again you see why it is used. These are very profound subtleties. The one thing we would like to point out before we go into the interpretations in terms of peace is that in these subtleties, when we really discipline ourselves and learn, study, practice the techniques, become aware of all these attributions as assigned to each Tarot key, each Hebrew letter, each sephirah on the tree, we find that this training holds our consciousness in a disciplined set of associations instead of the usual undisciplined way in which our minds work.

And that is why it is really very important to put in that little bit of time, it takes so little time every day really in a final analysis, to put in that little bit of time to familiarize ourselves with all the attributions that we receive in the lessons.

So this tarot key the high priestess assigned to peace and strife this connecting substance this power which is yours and mine this is the area within which our our ability to feel either peaceful or contentious comes in, and it arises there as a result, again we repeat, of the way we have interpreted our life experiences.

Now, for example, modern science has more and more been arriving at the realization, realization, at the recognition that it is the impact of electrical forces, electrical forces upon our senses, which is taken by they don't know what. Qabalah calls it consciousness.

Indeed, Qabalah says the very electrical forces themselves, which are making the impact, are also consciousness.

But that belongs to some other types of talk.

Nevertheless, it is the impact of these electrical forces, because everything happening everywhere, really, it's an interplay of energies. The fact that you and I see each other as we do, that we form an image. Remember what we said about the image-making faculty. The fact that we form an image means only that because of the kind of organism that we have built for ourselves, we in terms of our higher self, our true ego, because of the kind of form we have built, we receive these electrical impulses from the universe in a certain way and we have a tendency to interpret these impulses in a specialized manner so that the Lord of the universe sees experience and experiences and knows itself in terms of the kind of images we make because we are the specialized kind of consciousness which can experience the images in this way remember a bee or another kind of insect experiences images in another way entirely or the universe we really don't know exactly how they experience it it is definitely not like ours they do not live in our universe believe it or not they do not live in our universe only in this way that the experience they have of their universe is an utterly different one ones, from the ones we have. The bee, as we know, is aware of infrared vibrations in the electromagnetic field, and it therefore has its own kind of seeing. The fly can see all around itself at once we don't know what it is really seeing it isn't seeing what we see but it has its interpretation of us which is very different from our interpretation of ourselves and so the plant now the plant can't begin to conceive of the kind of universe we experience it hasn't got the sensory apparatus if we touch a plant the plant cannot be aware of the fact that it is a human being that looks so-and-so on this colored such-and-such the only sensory experience the plant can have is that it has been touched or pulled or cut by something what else can it have. Its own self-awareness, incidentally, has to do with a feeling of ecstasy at the warmth of the sun, at the play of the breeze, at the processes going on within itself. It has its own circulatory system you know and of the delightfulness of reaching out with its little tendril roots to all the little juicy morsels and minerals which it extracts from the various other elements its livingness is in terms of I tree I plant of whatever kind and it has no conception whatsoever of the kind of universe we conceive Every form experiences the universe in terms of its own form, and we have as many universes as we have consciousnesses to experience it.

This is the way the Lord of Life creates, shall we say, mentally. This is usually what is meant when it is said that the universe is an illusion, merely that it is not what it seems or appears. It isn't really an illusion. It's just that our interpretation is an illusion. It's just that what we experience in terms of our image is the limited image that we experience, but we experience it because this is how we're meant to in terms of form. We build the form in our own consciousness. I heard just a few days ago about a very great eye specialist who also has studied psychology most extensively, and he related that more and more it has been discovered by modern psychology and especially by certain specialized fields that when an infant is born that their idea is it has nothing but an empty blackness inside its consciousness well in a way this is a very correct analogy you know Qabalah says we come from out of the deep darkness except it isn't exactly what they think because it's a creative matrix in in itself. It's a consciousness that is capable of becoming aware, even though it may be called an empty blackness. And at any rate, he said that they are now aware of the fact that this infant comes into life with this empty blackness in its mind, and it creates its own universe through its sensory experience, through the sounds, the touches, the feelings, the eatings, all the experiences that come. This creates its mind. It has no mind, they say, until it has the sensory experiences so it can start forming and creating its universe in its consciousness.

Well, you know, this is really quite accurate, although it goes beyond that. The point is, everything creates the universe in its own consciousness, and that is why there's a very old American Indian adage that says, Judge no man until thou hast walked in his moccasins for three moons.

You see only when you can walk in the moccasins of another can you know what their universe is like and therefore what makes them weep and laugh and fear we always assume and most incorrectly we assume that other people see what we see hear what we hear and should react as we react and we develop terrible hostility when they do not react as we react as we well know why even in terms of eating if you like or love a certain food and somebody else says I hate that you feel as though you have been attacked do you not or and vice versa you feel insulted if you hate a certain food and somebody says but I love it and there's a expression comes over the face of such dislike how can you and the emotion in it do you notice the emotion how often have we said this all of us we do this is our immediate reaction we aren't aware of the fact that there are as many universes as there are consciousnesses to experience them, and this is one of the amazing miracles of life.

This really is what makes life so exciting, because there's so much to delve into, to try to understand, to keep us from being bored, if we'd only pay attention, to try, in whatever measure we can, to understand each other's universe a little more readily. This is such an exciting adventure, if we really knew how to love and be interested, how different our lives would be, how very different indeed. So we form hostilities, and we form hatreds, and we experience anger, and feel insulted as we get the impact of other human beings' responses to life because they are not exactly like ours or do not seem to be exactly like ours. Very often two people have such similar responses that to all intents and purposes you might almost call them like twins. Yet because they do not express themselves in the same ways, and how could they? We are each so unique in our response, unique indeed, because the expression isn't exactly the kind we would use. We often just try to destroy each other merely because we don't like the way the other expressed an idea, not that we should ever really dislike it that that much. And yet the irony is that very often the response is exactly alike and neither knows it. Why? Because they have not yet digested the meaning of the unity of life in terms of this particular tarot key. The interrelationship and the flows which take place, which now we will speak about that we've had a little background and some of these other aspects of the separate apparently separate universes we would that now then like to point out that these apparently separate universes aren't really separate at all it's merely our image is different remember the image-making faculty is what gives us uniqueness and individuality. Therefore, the fact that we each form our own images of the universe still does not take away from the fact that in the real universe we are all a united knowingness in the real universe. And what that real universe is, is we cannot know until we have achieved the state of consciousness that is shown in the white circle, by the way, the one, the indivisible.

It is usually when human beings have it, it is only a flash. We cannot stay there because we are specialized expressions. But once we know or have had an impact or a real illumination or experience of the real universe, we can then have much more acceptance, shall we say, of the various amazing, unique, imaged universes that are reflecting from the real universe. Those vibrations and those aspects which are part of each and every one of our individual type of experience for the impact of a growing and expanding consciousness.

This is indeed the purpose of the experience of these images and the repercussions from them, which we each have individually and separately.

But in time, we all make our connection with the real universe in terms of knowing what it's like, and therefore our private image-making powers become more and more in accord with reality. And when that comes, and as it comes, because we're all in different degrees of that anyway, we find that we do not make as many errors in judgment, we do not misunderstand other people as readily because we are flowing with the substance of the high priestess that is with the unifying intelligence due to having a more direct influx from the real universe now this unifying intelligence which is really the subconsciousness in actuality although it is represented as a like a fluidic fluidic water it is certainly not exactly that this is merely symbolic it is like a watery fluidic substance but it is also a living a vibratory one might almost call it electrical like type of watery substance and indeed if you will consider that now modern science can measure the electrical field of the brain and see just what kind of ups and downs it makes and they are getting to a point where they can interpret some of these where they can measure electrical impulses that come from the muscles we realize that the electrical impulse and the electrical communication elements of our natures are the most vital part of our beingness.

Indeed, this in a sense is our share of the vital force. When we say of another human being, my, how magnetic he or she happens to be, what we are saying whether we know it or not is that this person happens to have an ability to express with far more intensive electrical forces it it is more alive let's put it that way the more alive we are the stronger are the electrical impulses and the the electrical or electromagnetic energies that course through our system.

When we feel something, remember, what happens is that whatever it is we have felt, there is an electrical impulse travels from the end of the nerves, the sensory nerves of our fingertips.

And it just, like a flash, runs up the arm into the brain.

And there somewhere and whatever it is we call the mind an interpretation is made I mean and there are so many elements that come into it it was hard and it was this and it was that and it was all sorts of things and then the final the it takes in the electrical impulse of what the eyes have said of what the ears have heard and it comes out with a decision this is the experience I have I have just had.

That's one of the reasons it's so vital that we try to remain alert to all the impressions so that we give ourselves the correct and intense impressions in all our experiences. Well now, this electrical impact which is going on all the time emanates back and forth between us as human beings and in fact in all life. There isn't a single thought or emotion which anybody or anything has which doesn't immediately flow outward instantly in this electrical-like fluidic flow. There are various gradations of it. It can be measured by an instrument on the physical level, vibrational aspect of whatever we mean by electricity. But there are other finer electrical flows that are involved in this. I read in my little science periodical just yesterday that the scientists have now discovered that the muscles not only have the measurable strong electrical field which travels, but that they found there's a very weak electrical impact and flow of a very high frequency order, order, and that they think that this might help to bring more of an understanding of what they call the natural phenomena of telepathy and extrasensory perception.

Now you see, this in a scientific periodical is quite a step, isn't it, when we realize what scientific periodicals said just a few short years ago. Go. And of course they are quite right, but they're still not looking in the proper area or electrical area. It goes way beyond even what they think at the moment. Though there are stepped down energies, remember, and they can measure various elements in it. All right then in terms of peace which we are discussing this electrical flow remember we have an experience it doesn't matter what the experience is but whatever it is this experience is being interpreted in our consciousness and our interpretation and reaction is broadcast to the entire universe it isn't private In other words, if, say, we react to a situation with, I'd like to kill him, some of us might even say it, or her, we think this is a private and secret reaction. It isn't.

It's a power. It connects us this power this reaction radiates out in all directions in all directions at once from our center into infinity incidentally into infinity so that if we react with the feeling I could kill him or I could kill her I could tear him apart part this is what we are radiating out into infinity savage aren't we because what happens everybody receives some of it you recall I think that we have mentioned to this group it is known that we emanate atoms we atoms just fly out of us continuously so that in eight to ten months there isn't a single atom in our body which is the same as it was previously we have a whole bunch of new atoms we think it's the same body they're not even the same atoms let alone the same body so fixated minds that think it's the same body the reason it looks the same is because we're holding this image within our universe we have a picture of ourselves and so every atom that comes back in place of the atoms we've been emanating comes back with the same pattern the same picture that's why it is said in occultism hold your picture with feeling long enough and you must change whatever is around our trouble is we can't seem to hold it we sit down and practice for 10 minutes and the rest of the 23 hours and 50 minutes, gee, and I did that instantly, the rest of the 23 hours and 50 minutes we are still busily holding the same image of ourselves as we've been holding, both asleep and awake. That's why, again, it's so important to concentrate and to keep pulling our attention back to our new image as much as possible so you see when even the atoms in our bodies aren't the same as they were we can ask well where have they gone and what are they doing in life well what they're doing is influencing all of life in terms of what we've thought and felt and been that's what they're doing. It is not for ourselves alone that we must aspire. It's for all life, everything.

We are an aspect of the universal being and we affect the universe universally. And it may be a frightening thought, but it's also a rather glorious thought, because at least if, as we are told, we have infinity and eternity, no matter what the problems are, at least thank God, if we consider what we feel all the time and think, at least thank God we have eternity and infinity in which to transmute these elements. Isn't it so? At least we know that we cannot be dissolved into nothingness because that's impossible. The fact that we have consciousness gives us this eternal element always taking in electrical impacts interpreting them making images having these responses and automatically sending them out to everybody else so what is it that makes for peace and why is it that as said in the Bible they cry peace peace but there is no peace how many can say that they have peace in their hearts examine your heart is your heart at peace sometimes in some rare moment but is your heart at peace no it cannot be at peace because you're in conflict at all times The reason you're in conflict is because you feel insecure.

You feel insecure because you've made misinterpretations of the impacts that have come to your consciousness in the images you've built of your universe.

And that's very easily remedied. All you have to do is to start, sound simple, huh? Start reforming your universe.

Incidentally that's another reason that you see this yellow circle and Qabalah is called the image making power also the 13th Tarot key the one called death the Hebrew letter in that key in relation to that force is called the imaginative intelligence and remember that Tarot key is called death every Every time we can imagine anything new, this is creativity, we are destroying an aspect of our universe which is not in accordance with that new creative image.

So that destruction is certainly a spiritual and beautiful element in the universe. The important thing is to recognize what is constructive destruction and what is destructive destruction this is what we must find out for ourselves and actually it shouldn't be so difficult for us it seems so simple to remember first of all the golden rule and actually the golden rule isn't exactly worded correctly. It shouldn't be do unto others as you would have them do unto you.

There are lots of things that you would like done to you that somebody else would hate like the devil to have done to them. They haven't got the same taste.

What it should be is do unto others as they would like to have you do unto them in terms of the spiritual principles of life. How often do we try to force on other human beings our idea of good because we think it would be good for us we decide it would be good for everybody like for instance let's take politics with all this hoopty law starting up already we we're going to keep reminding you of this often because we're hoping we're going to help to wean you away from some of your old reactions because take politics the one thing every one of us want come election times is for everybody to agree with us if we're Republicans or Democrats or Prohibitionists and the Communists of course are even more intensely emotional about it because their politics are also the religious element in their lives but unfortunately most of us make at least some kind of religion out of the politics too. And so if some of the best friends separate with strife, there's no peace, peace come political time because we develop a tremendous antagonism towards those who haven't got the intelligence and the spirituality to recognize that what we have chosen as the proper candidate is naturally the only one to choose and so this is very disturbing because naturally we love humanity and we love life and what are we going to do when you have nothing but morons who can't see that only we know and everybody else is you know what certainly a damn fool if not much worse we become astonished at the hidden evil some of our near and dear ones have had that we've never recognized until for instance they may have decided nixon is a glory and and we say no it's stevenson who's the heavenly one. This brings great illumination and so we form another element in our universe for strife. Well, you see, he who understands that everything that is happening is after all the individual interpretation, the images we make of a universe that is forever in flux flux and change, the impact of experiences bring more electrical impact, shock us into giving up some things, though unfortunately too rarely are we shocked hard enough to give them up.

And those at least who see this principle are not as apt to get so hot and bothered, at least about some of the elements that are involved in the disturbances which come about say during election periods. However, the point is we are influencing each other with what we think and feel. This is the crux of the matter. We are receiving stations and we are broadcasting stations. And if we feel that the Second World War was something we did not make and if we get very incensed against the Hitlers and Mussolinis and great hoopla, direct descendant of God from Japan, if we get incensed over these ideas, it would do well for us to get a little incensed also at the fact that we created Hitler and Mussolini and the great representative son of God, which they thought was the emperor's real position in Japan. Hands, we would do well to stop throwing out from our consciousness all these condemnations and thinking and feeling in relation to ourselves that we are the great peacemaking saintly ones who certainly would never have made a contribution to that kind of holocaust, that that kind of hellishness.

But we have created them and we are creating them now again and we will continue creating them. How?

We will continue indeed.

We will do it in this manner unless we change it. We create Hitlers every time we feel a class superiority or a national superiority or a race superiority or a religious superiority over other individuals we are throwing into the mass mind that there's a group of which I to which if naturally I belong well this stands to reason there's a group to which I belong which is unquestionably superior to the other groups because here I am.

Do any of us really, in our heart of hearts, think that we are free of these feelings of superiority?

I have had people who have fought dynamically against bigotry and fought for the true brotherhood of man I have had such wonderful human beings confide to me secretly that there are some races that they do have a sort of repulsion for it's there emanating all the time being broadcast and being picked up and when even those who feel so strongly that they'll go out and fight against it will secretly confess that there is a feeling of repulsion I know in particular one individual who I felt was really next door to being a saint and actually he was and he told me secretly that even though he'd never had feelings of antagonism towards any other race for some strange reason he had a repulsion from Mexicans and all his life this man had fought against all these anti-minority groups really fought but he happened to feel this antagonism and he wondered why why. Well, the why wouldn't be important if he knew the principle of probably why.

There was some experience somewhere he took into consciousness that he didn't remember this is the principle behind him that made its connection an unpleasant experience that made its connection with some Mexican individual or group or he may have heard here's the unruly tongue he may have when he was very young heard something that shocked the sensitive soul that related to some Mexican Mexican. And because he was raised in an area where there were no Mexicans, this particular individual was raised way east and there were hardly any Mexicans there, you see. His whole love of humanity, he was able to go out and fight against discrimination against the Negro, Negro, discrimination against the Jew, discrimination against the Oriental. But he didn't have the living experience of the Mexican, and he had that to transmute. How could he have done it? This is the amazingly simple thing, by finding a very high-type individual who who happened also to be a Mexican extraction, and making a friend of him.

That's how simple it would have been.

By making a real friend of him, he would have washed out the old experience, even though it was unremembered, and he would have replaced it with something that was pleasurable. But it would have to naturally be a fine type individual, because we cannot make friends of those who do not meet us on certain intellectual, emotional levels. It isn't expected that we do.

The important thing is that even where people do not meet us on certain emotional or intellectual levels or spiritual levels, this is no reason that we condemn them, that we look down upon them, and certainly then it's no reason that we feel hostility.

It's just that we're different.

A horse isn't going to fall in love with a rabbit. They're different.

And it's the same way amongst human beings. We have different types.

We're not supposed to go in and develop these close friendships with any except that which we have an affinity for. Even the universe shows it. Only those elements that have an affinity for each other will come and meet and merge and it's the same with people nevertheless that does not make the other elements evil nor does it make them inferior this is the thing we must get out of our consciousness consciousness. As long as we feel the superiority and inferiority of groups, it's true there are some human beings that are more savagely infantile and some that are far beyond average Homo sapiens. But these are individuals, and this doesn't mean that we hate them. Do we hate a baby do we hate a newborn infant do we hate a four-year-old why should we hate the infantile individual we need to recognize it so cope with this individual as an infant but not to hate not to feel hostility if we train ourselves to do that we are not going to be making more wars. We're not going to be breeding the monsters, the true monsters, the fascist leaders which we've had all through history and all over the world. We will not be creating them because we create them. And we can uncreate them by making up our minds that in as much as everything that's emanated in the universe is taken in by us with our receptor stations and broadcast by us with our broadcasting powers it is up to us then to do our part and bringing peace into this world it is our responsibility as a cult aspirants we have greater responsibilities than the infants unless we're still infants making believe we're occult aspirants, which some of us do, but if we're true occult aspirants, we're going to recognize that every hate, every resentment, every feeling of inferiority, every condemnation, and especially when voiced, voice makes it that much more strong, that every one of these elements make and breed monsters and make and breed wars, and we will not be so smug about any war that we may think of that has occurred or that might have occurred. We will feel in our hearts our responsibility responsibility for this situation that drop in the ocean but that's our share and I if I be lifted up shall lift all others unto myself every new insight we have we owe to life to help lift that life to broadcast the positive elements the accepting the recognition that we are all different and isn't it wonderful instead of the feelings of hostility and insult.

You want peace in the world, my darlings? Start feeling peace towards your fellow man and you start it right in your home and wherever you go and in your office.

Start emanating what you must emanate eventually to do your part towards lifting this horror of legal murder and all other types of murder which exist in this world.
