For mystical illumination.

Now, on my particular Sundays I've been attempting to go through the series of Tarot Keys and bring out one or two or more important points, that which we all seem to need at the moment. Because, as you know, with tarot, there's no such thing as giving one talk or learning it because of having one lesson, and that's it. Just like beginninglessness and endlessness, just like eternity, just like infinity, with tarot, there's no end to what can happen to us.

and does happen to us, provided we work with it. Because there are arcs upon arcs. The spiral circle is not the kind of circle that just returns to itself with the same old experience, the same old knowledge. Each arc brings us into a new area, a new vista of being.

and because this is so the tarot serves as one of the most effective I know I wouldn't say one of the most effective I would say it is more accurate to say it is the most effective method that has yet been devised by the brothers, the masters of the inner to help humanity humanity not only intensify their evolution, but to help them develop the ways and means which are required in order to gain control step by step of those portions of their consciousness, those portions of their nature, which are required for the step by step evolution.

and so in utilizing the tarot and along with the tarot remember as we go through the various arcs we start adding other methods the lessons teach us how to do it the lessons we receive at home and then here in the temple we get other expanded usages and teachings as was read to you from our bible this morning when Jesus said to his disciples to you it is given to know the mysteries but to them in parables well here in temple we very specifically teach the mysteries and when we go out amongst others we have to speak in parables but you see speaking about the mysteries or teaching the mysteries is one thing having ears to hear as we also discovered from the reading of the Bible having ears to hear what was said or what was taught is quite another thing we've had beloved fratres and sorores which means brothers and sisters in our tradition we've had them come for years and years listening to certain ideas certain principles and perhaps after after three, four, five, six years, all of a sudden one of them will write or come to one of us and say, you know, today I really had a realization.

What you said today was just what I needed to have an awakening.

And the portion mentioned has been given. And that thing has been said and mentioned for years and years and years. but that particular aspirant had not yet come to the point where he or she had yet developed the ears to hear. But it was being worked upon by the tarot because they were working with the tarot, and then in the expanded area relating the tarot to the Qabalistic tree of life, and so on, and utilizing the chants which intensify the power of the word, as it has been called, although it has been called many other things too that relate to the usage of the occult powers for spiritual growth.

The message was there, but not for that particular individual yet, because not yet had the consciousness been prepared to receive that particular kind of illumination.

So today with Tarot Key Number 16, which we are going to be referring to in regard to the title Preparing for Mystical Illumination, that Key 16, the tower, it's right in front of you.

you want to look at it now that may look like an uncomfortable tarot key and uncomfortable it is for some others like lightning in fact they adore it and they love being knocked out of towers of Babel and false prisons they say thank you God of course there are other people who's here just stands on end and they wonder what's wrong What's happened? What's gone wrong? Well, nothing has gone wrong at all here. They're being prepared for mystical illumination. They're actually even receiving it at a point that looks as terrifying as this, though sometimes it isn't recognized yet. Sometimes we have to look back and realize that we had an illumination because we have the tendency to think that not unless we have a complete cosmic consciousness experience without even knowing what that is, except what we've read in books, we have a tendency to think that illumination is some kind of startling phenomenon that from that point on gives us the realization or the recognition
