So, of our talk for this morning, the mystical foundations of life.

Now, in the particular Sundays I've been taking, as you recall, I've been, at least to some small degree, been attempting to help you to see the Qabalistic Tree of Life in special ways, ways, to see the expression of its livingness from the number one, which is the one, the only, the indivisible, the beginning of the whirlings, and right on through its developments, which I have continuously tried to remind you doesn't mean that once we get the developments of the number two, three, etc., that we have something outside of the one, because always we think more of the various aspects of the one, the fantastic area which can be best explained by imagining an infinite number of division upon division vision in order to be able to become aware of the most minute aspects of the all. Because one of the things that occurs to the consciousness, and it is inevitable, it is the kind of illusion we cannot escape, but of course it's the delusion we can be freed from it is inevitable in that we all experience this illusion of separation from the number one when we go into the two three and so and so on it is inevitable that for the sake of manifestation the development of the various aspects of the one the indivisible that which we chant as divine ahaya it is inevitable that we experience otherness inevitable because there could be no self-consciousness without it.

Still, always and always and always it is up to the spiritual aspirant to correct himself within the mind, within the heart, within the actions in relation to the illusion so that we don't fall into the trap of thinking, feeling or acting in terms of the illusion, pretty much like the problems that would arise if we thought, felt, enacted in terms of any kind of illusion.

You know, when man believes in nonsense, he commits horrors, as a way of describing that which I believe it was Voltaire who said, when man believes in absurdities, he commits atrocities.

In the same way the spiritual aspirant has to learn how to continuously correct the significance of the illusion that we all inevitably must have of apparent separation if he's going to attain to any of the true levels of heart's desire And so the mystical foundation of life, which we're going to attempt to discuss this morning, related to the ninth Sephirah, yesed, which means foundation, this is the area in which we're going to have to try to see, to attempt some understanding together, where the corrections are made when we learn how to really work at correcting because foundation amongst other things is cabalistically said to hold the patterns of consciousness now what does that mean that to which our psychologists refer to and they say subconsciousness or the unconscious conscious or the subliminal mind, even that which is referred to as the anima mundi. All of this actually are the aspects that the Qabalists refer to when they refer to yesed, the foundation. Now remember, what it is saying in essence then is that the subconsciousness or the unconscious and that includes the collective unconscious this is the pattern this holds the patterns for all that happens that means your subconsciousness your unconscious your portion of and experience in and through true, anima, the anima mundi, is what holds the patterns for your life, your manifestation, your beingness. And what are these patterns? These patterns are the thinkings, the feelings and the doings that you are habitually expressing.

Remember the affirmation that we make in the pattern on the trestle board when we say for the ninth aspect of the Tree of Life, which is Yesod, when we say in thought, in word, Indeed, I rest my life from day to day upon the sure foundation of eternal being. Well, it's saying far more than we know.

Of course, bear in mind that the declarations of the pattern are the positive declarations. It's more like instruction as to what we should be thinking, feeling, doing. It really holds the full instruction for the ageless wisdom in a very condensed form it is true but it holds it and what it is saying therefore and in a positive way when we come to understand it helps us to recognize what we have been doing with the same power in negative ways in other words it is saying basically that only as we correct our ideas and thoughts and feelings and thought and word and deed and our doings remember only as we correct them habitually will we become aware of the fact that the foundation of our life is eternal being and we're being told to practice just that so we notice that the key 14 assigned to the holy guardian angel to temperance but also remember to the testing and trying the consciousness of testing probation trial this is the flow that comes down from the central ego of all humanity that which means the self-consciousness these capacity to be self-conscious the actual central ego that belongs to each one of us it is through this path through this process of testing out the patterns that manifestation takes place so that everything and remember habitual patterns a The pattern has to do with that which is a habit.

So the habit mind is another way of putting areas of subconsciousness. But remember, there's more than just the idea of patterns. There's function.

This is the sphere of the activity of the moment. Yes, it is. Which means the whole function, the action, the activities that are taking place in relation to our patterns.

And remember, when we mentioned patterns, we also pointed out the Anima Mundi, which, if you want another term for it, you can call the soul of the world.

Now, you think about that for a minute.

The patterns for manifestation are held in the soul of the world.

Remember when we say that yes, it is assigned to the vital soul, to the animal soul, to the automatic soul. We give them all three terms to help you try to understand that we're talking, which man shares with all living.

You remember Eve was the mother of all living.

Man shares this with all living, not just with all living human beings but with all living that means everything that is livingness is part of the animal mundi that is the world soul everything that is living is an expression of of patterns held in that area or sphere of activity.

Therefore, everything that we experience as living or see as living is really an expression of that.

Now, in order to help us see this even a little more clearly, let's together analyze the ideas involved in the divine name of power given to this function. The divine name of power given to the function in Yeses, the habit mind, is Shaddai El Chai, which you who come on the Fourth Mondays are more familiar with than the rest, although we've used it here on Thursday nights too for a certain special chance.

Now, Shaddai El Chai, what does that mean? Should I means Almighty that's one of its most important meeting Almighty you can think of it as strength in other words the most the strongest of the strong what would be the most strongest that can be it would be the most almighty because might isn't that strength power so the absolute the strength, the power, the almighty and El, Shaddai is the one then El means God that's one of the words for God so we're talking about all mightiness almighty strength the strongest of the strong because almighty, it's like when you're saying omniscient, it's all science when you're saying all should die you're really talking about infinite strength it has the same connotation because to God is given the idea of the infinite power the infinite strength and then is one of the words that is assigned to wisdom, Chokmah, the Divine Father.

And that means life, plain life.

So when we talk about the mystical foundation of life, you see we're talking about the livingness of the divine father in conjunction with in complete interacting unity with the Divine Mother because again I'd like to remind you that in yes I said, this chased away, I'd say, about 30 to 40 of our Thursday night class members at this point, you know.

We do this regularly, not because we want to chase anyone away, but some people are damaged by the intense energies that we take if they have not yet arrived at a place in their evolution where they can handle certain concepts without going to pieces. In other words, their patterns in yes-ed are still so firmly fixed in the negative sense that they cannot take the stirring of the energies. It's more like the explosions that would make them really, what is it called, freak out? Is that the freak out? That's a good expression, very good expression, makes them freak out. In other words, as we used to say in my last incarnation when I was a youngster then, it makes them batty or nutty.

So that some people simply, because of the fixity of certain negative patterns and the certain guilts that they hold within the negative patterns, they freak out at the impact of the stirring, the energies which stirs just that, stirs the patterns within Yesod. All of the work of builders of the adytum, all of the work of the Western mystery training system is aimed at stirring, shaking up a Pandora's box.

So you have to be strong. You have to be able it isn't that you have to immediately transmute who can do that? No one nor is it expected that we immediately transmute we have to gain the kind of strength where we are able and willing to look at other principles and say hmm now if that's so then I have to apparently I have to go to work and try to do something about this this and that we have to be willing to look at reality if it is real and when we can't you see when we're unable to we get we shatter ourselves so regularly though God knows we are reaching out and attempting to bring our own to us in every way shape and form so they can receive the help they can receive only the amount of help they're able to and some people are at this time too fixed in certain patterns.

It would make them freak out. It is the greatest kindness to them then to concentrate on the very thing that they're not going to be able to take so that they can just leave quietly in anger or whatever way they need to, you know, at the moment for their own safety as well as for keeping the spirit and energies of the group working together keeping them at their height so that we can be a receiving vehicle for the divine that hasn't got a bunch of holes where all the energies can keep leaking out where we can really learn how how to take and hold the energies and partake of this vessel of spiritual nourishment more effectively. So I'm pointing this out to you, Joe, that here we've given, and we had to, because from time to time, when certain energies become too unwholesome within some centers, we have to give this concentration for the sake of the little ones ones which who may be six foot four or so but there's still the little ones in that area at the moment that this part of their incarnation they could turn out to be the most highly developed and advanced say five ten years from now we're talking about right now they're unable to take this concept the concept being what that in yes it of course we hammer it in a little more on Thursday nights but in Yesod we have that miracle or as it is taught by Qabalah the entire projection of the physical universe is the result of the fact that Yesod is said to be the reproductive organs of Adam Kadman which means the grand man or we can again we can call it the cosmic self and within that area of activity one of the aspects that's involved and the Qabalists call it the secret the secret, one of the terms they use is so yod in other words it's the secret of yod and yod is the Hebrew letter for the hermit which you see the father there and it is also the element that is within every single Hebrew letter that Hebrew letter is part of every one of the 22 Hebrew letters so that that's and that is the seed it is the cosmic seed that is within everything that lives, this is another way of putting it, which makes the higher self the father of all but the father, you can't be a father without a mother and so that seed has to enter the womb and the womb is the cosmic mother well yes it or subconsciousness or automatic consciousness or animal mundi or that which holds the patterns of either the single or all or collectively this is said to be the sphere of activity of the union the reproductive energies of the divine Divine Mother, Divine Father.

This is the sphere of activity. Its actual union is in the supernal triad, as a triune aspect there. But its sphere of activity, then, is in that area.

And certainly, I think all of us will agree that it is rather extraordinary how creatures everywhere in the world know exactly what to do. They're driven in the most extraordinary, miraculous ways in the manner in which they woo and attain union in order for new forms of livingness to appear.

And what is it that appears in and through the forms? After all, a rock is a form. And of course, kabbalistically, this is also livingness.

But when we talk about the vital soul, we're talking about the level of evolution where livingness is able to reproduce itself.

It has attained that level of consciousness. It can reproduce itself. And it reproduces itself in what manner? After its own image. So that you notice a fly doesn't give birth to a worm.

Although it is said some people do you know we call a person a worm nevertheless in essence each creature gives birth to its own kind image and likeness and where is the image it is in the vital soul it is in that which is non-physical the physical is the result you've often heard to say the physical is the result it is the effect so the mystical foundation has to do with the pattern in the consciousness that is non-physical it is the astral it is the astral holdings of these patterns which project now it does it in more than one way if it does it via a birth, like giving birth to any living creature. You notice how we call this vital soul, the yes-it portion, as well as calling it the animal soul, as well as calling it the automatic soul. We're trying in every way to indicate that this automatic consciousness, and why do we say automatic?

Automatic because whatever is received into subconsciousness which is like received into the womb that's why subconsciousness is always called feminine basically this is what it grows and it grows the image that is within it whatever our modern science calls or whatever pictures it It's taking pictures of just little portions of things that aren't the essence. The essence is the image, and an image hasn't got a physical place.

It becomes gradually manifest. It manifests out.

The image is, in a sense, like the electromagnetic pattern around which the substance or atoms form. They're attracted. Attracted, it inexorably attracts a certain, the most subtle kinds of matter to itself, and by aggregation then finally comes to the point where it has copied the image pattern and then is ready for birth, but it is the image, and always it is the image of what it is.

So that's why, you know, the memory, and incidentally memory is also called part of subconsciousness. And remember the sphere of the activity of the moon assigned to the principles of subconsciousness we even have that aspect that's involved so within the entire the soul of the world we have what you might call the patterns of all living also the patterns that have to do with everything that has been thought and felt by all people because man made in the image and likeness of God is also one who forms patterns that's why although as we admit we read to in the Bible by that most beautiful adorable wonderful precious treasured gorgeous Reverend Jacob you know that's understating it where where in the reading from the Bible mentions thou hast made him but little lower than the angels although it is true that man in his present state state of evolution is a little lower than the higher angels. In actuality, at this point of evolution, in actuality though, man in his capacity, man in what he will ultimately be, being the begotten of Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh Elohim, remember, being the son of God, in in other words, made in the image and likeness of the powers of the divine, man is capacity-wise higher than the angels.

Isn't that nice to know? Imagine, we're more than the angels capacity-wise. And at the moment we appear to be but little lower than the angels. Some of us, of course, appear to be a lot lower. But it depends on what kind of angels.

You know even that figure that uh the fellow there with the horns is called an angel I don't know if you want to realize that but when the sons of god appeared uh before the throne satan was there also remember and god didn't mistreat him either if you'll recall so we can see that even the sons of the Most High who are devilish are not apart from the divine though without any question that in us which is still akin to the immature, the devilish that in us which gives itself up to the automatic consciousness level has to go through certain pains, sufferings, in order to finally arrive at a point where we're going to work at gaining control of those portions of this subconsciousness or automatic consciousness, those portions of the anima mundi, which it is our destiny to rule. And that's why when it says in the Bible, on god made gave man dominion remember when we think of yes it as being the animal soul also which we share with all creatures it has to do with our gaining control of all those drives within ourselves gaining control so that we direct them consciously all these drives instead instead of being the prey to these drives.

Because we are more than animal consciousness.

We are but little lower than the angels at this point with a capacity to become even vastly and infinitely more.

God made in the image and likeness of God.

You know my favorite little term for that. We are godlets.

Certainly therefore not even gods in the making because you see our images are already so powerful and you surely don't doubt it all who are spiritual aspirants have looked back upon their lives and have seen sometimes with horror sometimes with astonishment sometimes with mixtures haven't we seen how the patterns we have held habitually believe remember the habit pattern mind how these patterns have manifested inexorably in our lifestyle in our life patterns in our whole beingness so we can see that dominion over all of the creatures of the animal soul has to do with gaining control or becoming self-conscious or more self-conscious in relation to this subconscious strata of our being. And remember, real, true self-consciousness is assigned to Tiphareth.

It's assigned to the sphere of the activity of the sun. It's assigned to that which we call beauty. It's assigned to that which we call Adam, generic humanity. That's the yellow sephirah that is the true self-consciousness everything below is personality that belongs to self-consciousness including its subconscious sphere its vital soul sphere so the mystical foundation of life involves so much more than we even remotely can recognize what is being said in essence just by the title alone is the fact that all living everything that is has as its foundation that which is non-material or it has as its foundation the divine name of power Shaddai El Hai which I remind you means the complete absolute Almighty God which is livingness so your livingness is of with from through and every other word you want to find that involves Shaddai El Hai as is the livingness of all, the livingness of all. And what is livingness? Livingness is not just livingness in and through a physical form, but we are made aware of livingness in and through the form. And just looking at any and all forms, looking at any kind kind of form, whatever the vehicle that may be.

What we have to do is to learn to consciously, until it becomes automatic and subconsciously, to consciously train this portion of our subconsciousness to see every living thing that is as being an expression of Shaddai El Chai, being an expression of the Almighty God which is livingness livingness which is above and beyond form livingness which is the Divine Father remember Chai is the Divine Father livingness which is that which is the result of the Divine Father-Mother combination and growth so that wherever we see life we are really experiencing a mystical mystery and we usually know it not because we are taken in by what we mentioned before we are permitting ourselves to be taken in by the illusion and then we walk in delusion walking in delusion in exorably forces us to walk in pain walking in enlightenment in exorably has us walk in light and life and joy you know you've been reading in the lessons often and often how the alchemists have said that the great work is a work of the sun and the moon with the aid of mercury now the sun is Tiphareth the self-conscious self the central self the true inner self offspring of god which is you that's the sun the moon is yes it subconsciousness that which holds the patterns the vital soul the almighty power of livingness pattern holder the pattern projector With the aid of Mercury, Mercury, remember, is assigned to the magician, which you will see on the Tree of Life as that which gives the Divine Mother, Bina, the self-awareness through the one, the only, the indivisible, Yechida.

And in the personality level it's assigned to hod which is the sphere of the activity of mercury and hod remember the intellectual faculties so what is being said here what is being said is that we have to take our minds our intellects within personality and continuously continuously keep using our intellects to and this is continuously to keep dropping new patterns changing patterns you notice how the magician you'll see it in large before you is taking from the above and planting into the below the above in essence he's taking from the the indivisible, the one, the true self, and he's planting into the garden, subconsciousness, which is your subconsciousness, the yes-ed part of us, planting new patterns. And notice that the key that takes us from the sun, the self, which is tifrith, beauty, the tarot key that relates down into yes-ed, which is temperance right here, the 14th Tarot Key, notice the work that's being done.

The pairs of opposites, the power of the pairs of opposites are being used. So that in essence you might say if I'm filled with hate, I use love.

I keep using my intellect to say God is love, to try to act God is love, to try to think, to try to feel God is love, to search I keep trying to correct any hostility in me intellectually you have to start everything intellectually you have to start it with the mind the with the aid of mercury until within the automatic patterns of subconsciousness we have made a new automatic pattern in place of the old if it's my habit pattern say to feel insecure I have to take the opposite they got god of security I rest my life from day to day upon the sure foundation of eternal being I receive the benevolence of the divine at all times by holding it you change anything and everything by placing the opposite and making it automatic not until we've made it automatic that's the reason another reason it's called the automatic consciousness you're not a musician until you've made your ability to play that instrument automatic before that you use the conscious mind and you laboriously keep beating the practice in the same way we are being told continuously and in every way possible that we have to take the intellect and continuously keep changing that's why the fires uh is being of the torch by the angel is being applied to the eagle which is a water sign remember and incidentally it's also the reproductive sign the reproductive sign and it's exalted action because the reproductive functions the reproductive organs are assigned to Scorpio the Scorpio symbol is a scorpion but they say a high scorpion or an old soul scorpion of course every scorpion here is a high old soul scorpion you understand it's just the others but they The high, the scorpion, that is a low scorpion, stings with its tail, you know.

But the high scorpion uses the energy instead of stinging with the tail. It soars like the eagle. So the high scorpion or the old soul scorpion is called the eagle. Amongst that the meanings are that the reproductive energies are being used in the exalted soaring fashion not in the automatic consciousness fashion where it stings like a scorpion and it does it does don't we all or haven't we all gotten into more trouble when we've permitted the automatic consciousness portion of our drives to take hold and then because of the uh permitting ourselves to be caught in this need for the anima mundi remember the automatic consciousness of the world has a drive it has a compulsion which is glorious and beautiful to reproduce itself in every form have you ever noticed how every every little seed falls in the crack of a rock and it'll give make roots and try to grow have you ever noticed how a little seed in the ground a tiny seed in the ground a rock is in its way have you known that a seed will split a rock apart just give it enough moisture it'll split a rock apart that's the power should die high indeed almighty god is livingness the power that nothing can withstand so the anima mundi this expression of this almighty god livingness pushes compulsively to reproduce self in every way but man was given Of course, it doesn't look like man controls it much, does it?

But he controls it more than we realize, or he couldn't have achieved the level he's got.

After all, he does take time out to think and meditate and remember man, unlike the the other creatures, is able to function in this area 365 days a year. You cannot say this of other animals, except his close cousin, of course, the anthropoid family, the little chimpanzee, gorilla, etc., little cousins.

I hope you don't mind there being little cousins.

I think it's charming, very charming.

Remember, even a worm is a cousin, two, three times removed instead of so close.

All life, really, is part of us. We are related.

Shaddai El Chai is all livingness. So there isn't anything that's alive that isn't related to us. It's all part of the One Divine. This is what we want to realize. So think about the power and the strength of this livingness well of course man until he stops to think and recognize, realize of course has a part of himself that's sort of in the clutches of this divinely glorious ecstatic compulsion I mean we're not saying there's anything evil or wrong about it because there isn't it's the way we use this vast power that makes it whatever it becomes glorious or other but it is man who's been given dominion and giving to mid given dominion means it is man who has the power to bring this energy into the so so that he expresses it as a soaring eagle and so here Here we have the temperance, the holy guardian angel pours the fire onto the water of the eagle, showing there's activity going.

It doesn't, you know, you don't just block a thing down because sooner or later it explodes. It's how it's expressed.

We have here the pair of opposites, the fire on the water sign, and then on the other side we have the water on the fire sign. Again, it is through using the pair of opposites.

Anything in your life that disturbs you can be corrected by learning how to use the opposites. Now, of course, it sounds easy, but it isn't easy only for this reason that we keep falling back, we keep getting pulled back to that automatic pattern which has all that energy strength in it. So in order to change any circumstance in our lives whatsoever that brings us pain grief that brings us tears and frustration what we have to do is use mercury with the aid of mercury we have to use the conscious mind to continuously correct to keep pouring in an opposite pattern charging it and charging it, the sun and moon with the aid of Mercury, until finally that opposite pattern is so strong that we have transmuted the negative tendency to the positive. If it's a tendency towards feeling inferior, we change that feeling of inferiority by correcting the image.

And we just keep holding that image, and you can see why it becomes necessary to be an intense spiritual aspirant because only when we want something strongly enough do we keep at it over and over again haven't you noticed like when I was smoking continuously I mean if you've ever seen a chain smoker then nothing I outdid them all anything I do I do well I outdid them all and I and and and I smoking madly away I you know somebody'd light a cigarette I'd say to them I disapprove of smoking you know and I'd be smoking madly away and they said well why are you smoking I said because I have a habit pattern well if you're an adept why don't you give it up I said because if I'm an adept I'm smart enough to know that there's no use wasting my energy unless something in me desires it, to give it up.

I don't desire it. I'm adept enough not to waste my energy. Puff, puff.

I hope you can remember that because some of the best lessons are given in jest.

Then when the desire came, I stopped.

How long is it now? I mean, I'm not bragging. We keep all our fingers crossed. Almost three years. Almost three years he's exaggerating I just remembered it's two years and two months laughter laughter laughter laughter laughter laughter yeah but see I mention this why because it has to do with everything really when we have enough desire we are inexorable we have should die a high we have the almighty god livingness power to change the pattern and change the manifestation there is absolutely nothing that can withstand it because that's the divine power it's the power that splits a rock imagine this tiny seed for it's livingness that can split a rock it's the power that accomplishes all things it is your power my beloved ones it isn't the power you have to get you've got it you don't have to become an aspect of this mystical foundation you are livingness incarnate this fantastic and inexorably unbeatable power isn't something you have to get it's yours you've been succeeding with it you've been making patterns with it you've been so utterly fantastically extraordinary in the perfection of your manifestations of misery and tears fears, frustration and disappointments.

You have never failed. Your patterns have always been absolutely sure.

But the only difference between those who walk in a greater fulfillment and those who don't are that some have been using this power unconsciously. That's why we have to consciously work with it to change it in accordance to our heart's desire consciously then we have to start working on bringing more and more recognition into our hearts and souls that the mystical foundation for our lives and all lives resides inside each living expression and that means that the entire power of the world soul is there you know the entire power is there for us to utilize it's right there the intensity of our determination or the intensity of our aspiration will determine the degree of the result and no matter how miserable no matter how low no matter how depraved any human being has become or is the truth of the matter is the lowest of the low can become a sublime and more than an angel if an intensity of desire to do so comes is there intensely aspiring enough because that power can make them determined to walk with those ten affirmations and not permit a moment to go by where they don't keep gently and lovingly correct and correct and correct the negative thought, the negative self-interpretation.

And how dare you say of yourself to yourself, I am ugly I am weak how dare you make such terrible remarks about the divine offspring you know when my precious darling says of himself oh you know he gets annoyed with himself he's a perfectionist he says oh jacob how can you be so stupid I turn on him with righteous wrath and god God help anybody that gets my wrath.

Oh boy, look, you see that fire and flame? Boy, that's me. I turn on him with righteous wrath and I say, how dare you say anything like that about my husband? He says, well, I can say it about myself. I say, you cannot.

No one can say that about my husband, including you. I will not tolerate it and I don't I can assure you it isn't often anymore the application of the wrath of the angel you notice what I'm calling myself cunning although some will say oh you mean that one there the 15th whichever Whichever.

It's all a matter of interpreting our condition, isn't it? I mean, what looks like an angel of light to one appears like a bleak, dark shadow to another, doesn't it? It's how we interpret the application of an energy. Well the truth of the matter is you do not have a right to tear yourself down my beloved ones and every time you tear yourself down you are suffering the repercussions of the wrath of God because incidentally one of the terms given to key 14 the holy guardian angel is the wrath of God did you know that?

You think oh God is love And after all, if God is love, how can there be the wrath of God? What nonsense!

How could there be God's love if there isn't also God's wrath? How could love train that which is untamed if it didn't apply a good little whip here and there like Jesus did when necessary? We've got to have good righteous indignation within ourselves and then the principles apply. Apply the principles of the divine, apply the correction.

Remember, those of you who've been coming to the Thursday night class, what I've pointed out, that a true magus, one who's attained to the haya, the life awareness of wisdom, the divine father, is implacable towards evil because of the fact that he's utterly incapable capable of hating the evildoer love corrects when something needs correcting and that's really loving otherwise we're just appeasing and then we're really the devil instead of the angel that we're trying to make ourselves out to be so you have no right to tear yourself down and when you You suffer the consequences, you've built your patterns that bring you the sorrow, which is beautiful, that is the correction of the universe taking place.

The mystical foundations of livingness are there at all times.

That which brings you tears has been the greatest lovingness towards you, which even though you, in a sense, have brought on yourself, it's the principles of the divine, because you are the divine. And you are being prepared to have an infinitely more fulfilled life and really it is easy. In other words, ask yourself the question, do I want to walk in light and fulfillment?

Now, who's going to say I don't? Well, subconsciously you don't, of course. You're going to keep with the other patterns. But even if subconsciously you don't, by intellectually, that's why you need the aid of Mercury, If you take your intellect and just at least keep giving the right information, the right affirmation, continuously mentally, you'll gradually work in a pattern where it'll, suddenly it'll burn with the flame of the Holy Guardian Angel. And you'll manage to transmute and burn out the old automatic thinking and feeling about yourself and institute the new one. Thus will you be participating in that which it is your destiny to participate in you will be consciously creating foundations upon foundations new ones for the beauty the fulfillment you are being trained right now to help bring about the brotherhood of man which already is it exists on the inner you are being trained to do this by first becoming a brother to yourself in other words you bring yourself into harmony if you're not in harmony with yourself how are you going to be in harmony with your fellow man so you are being trained to do this and the mystical foundation of life is what is receiving the messages fortunately for us we're not just dependent on only what we do with our own little self that is the personality because remember your real self consciousness is the sphere of the activity of the Sun your real self has the power of the Sun multiplied by by infinity. Your real inner self is always working to pour this gold into you, into the patterns, the real patterns of what you are to be, being poured now by the Divinity. And the I AM THAT I AM of the Cosmic Self is within you. All of this is there. You're not dependent on your personality, as a matter of fact your personality is being built changed and transmuted by that above you are that beauty, you are that livingness, you are that glory and your destiny is the absolute and complete heaven on earth that is going to be because it already is in that infinite inner which we share now and forevermore.
