I went away for a little rest in the vacation, you know, and I've come back renewed, ready to get into the, not just what we might call the job, but into the joy and the glory and the privilege of intensifying the work of BOTA ever more fully now. we have had quite a long period of getting the temple ready as you know getting organized in it and we have not even yet taken time for attention to start concentrating our efforts on bringing our own to us in this area each thing must be done in a good time meanwhile our deepest owner with with us, with the great satisfaction it gives to each and every one of us.

In the quotation from Psalms that we read to you this morning, we have one of the profound, and as you know by now, most of our quotations could be shown in terms of the Qabalistic interpretation to have a meaning other than is usually given to them and in this particular quotation we again have the Qabalistic pointing to the idea that he who complains he who speaks deceit he who feels and or acts in terms against his brother usually receives that which is not very happy and yet he The laws behind them are so much different than what we ordinarily conceive. So we're going to go into that tonight in our little talk, and we will remember our title is Stop Complaining, Start Aiming. That one rather delights me. I always enjoy the touch of humor because it helps to bring about the serious, the deep, and the foul, I think, more fully in our hearts.

So the stop complaining, start aiming. Let's analyze it in terms of what it truly means.

those of us in a cultism even the beginners have certainly come upon the principle that that which we hold in our consciousness this is what we create we hold sorrow we create sorrow. We hold joy, we create joy. If we hold discontent, we receive it, and certainly then, if our hearts and our minds are full of complaints, what can we expect from life except that which will cause us to complain a little more fully? Now, there are some who claim that this is not a very just law in many ways that if a human being does the best he can he tries to live with kindness and with goodness towards his fellow man according to the best light that he has this should be sufficient to bring him whatever is meant by an improved or happier karma however However, the unhappy fact, but perhaps we should say the happy fact, is that this is not true. And then many hearts become troubled. And they say, well then, a person could be a beast. He could be a tyrant. He could be practically a demon.

but if he holds certain positive thoughts and feelings in his mind and heart in terms of expectations he will have a lovely life is it justice this is what many would say and of course they would be correct if they were interpreting this principle correctly which usually they are not for example For example, we know someone who has often attacked the occult principle of that which you hold in your mind with profound emotion, that which, for lack of better words to say, that which you have faith in, comes to you. We know someone who has attacked this very vehemently and very often and has pointed, for example, to a friend or a relative he had who had a tremendously intense belief in Christian science.

and this particular individual insisted and with great emotion that the ailments of which she was subject to that the unhappiness resulting thereof was due to something wrong with her faith but that the principle was correct and this example has been given that here is someone who had even had so much faith that she insisted that it was something lacking in her faith even though she also insisted that she had the faith to believe in this principle and knew she was going to be all right he always hammered on the fact that this individual knew she was going to be alright but she wasn't she became gradually more deformed with a very serious illness and then developed others and finally died rather horribly. This incidentally is not an example at all. People have the faculty of interpreting with insufficient data and insufficient understanding of particular principles. One might say of the individual who insisted that the faith and God was going to cure her, this one who was a Christian scientist, but who instead considered to develop ever more terrible ailments. This individual could have been giving emotional lip service to something, and indeed I'm quite sure was, because after doing a bit of investigating through questioning into her way of life, It was found that she experienced profound hatred, profound hatred, in terms of the male-female relationship, for one thing.

That is, she had a warped, an unwholesome, and an impure response to the act of sex, which is an expression of the unity of life. This was one of the areas in her nature which were warped indeed. And she had a certain selfishness that was really terrible, terrible indeed, where she expected certain individuals to give up everything in all life and live with only one aim, that is to wait upon herself, hand and foot. it. And when one sees just what a human being did, as well as how a human being felt about basic principles in the universe, it becomes very easy then to interpret with a little more data and to say that where the consciousness is warped, a warped response in life experience is inevitable, inevitable indeed. So that it isn't only in occultism that we must hold to certain positive thoughts and expectations, but the positive thoughts and expectations must be in conformity with harmony, or shall we call it love, with unity, with principle or law or truth.

truth, whatever that means, because truth means as many things as there are people to think about it. The heart and the mind must be in conformity with the true universal principles in order for the expectation and the mind to be holding accurate and therefore effective effective forces which will bring their effective results. The claim that God is going to heal when the soul is so sick that it seeks to destroy other souls, even if it's the unconscious consciously is not the sort of attitude that really indicates aiming with the universal principle of our consciousness, aiming correctly at all. Our aim is always in terms of our understanding of universal principles at the moment. and by at the moment it can be in within an incarnation or it can be within a cycle within a day or a month or a year these vary because our understanding our insights and therefore our interpretations they grow they are not static we are in a universe of motion and growth and evolution although it does seem and I will confess it some people seem to have withdrawn from the evolutionary stream they seem to be so stuck in a basic emotional response or a basic mental interpretation to certain aspects of life and there are times when some of us become very discouraged when we see this occurring nevertheless we must always remember there are wheels within wheels cycles within cycles and that there are some areas of the nature that take a longer cycle from our present point of view than others.

You know, like again it says in the Bible, in the eyes of the Lord, a thousand years is a day, and the day, a thousand years, it all depends on the area of motion, experience, and change. So we cannot become too strict, frozen, in the way we look at the unfolding evolutionary aspects of our consciousness.

We go through life continuously with an emotion of complaint in our heart, and we little realize it. we often, and we hear this so much from aspirants, will think that we are applying ourselves assiduously to certain positive thoughts, like bringing in a better job, for instance, or improving a relationship, or bringing about a more harmonious change in the entire environment, or accomplishing a specific something in one's profession. We think we have been applying all of our forces, that is, that we have been aiming properly, whereas if we sit down and think and analyze, we will discover that though with one side of our heart and our mind we have been aiming, with the other side we've been tearing down our aim and reinforcing an old pattern far more assiduously 10 minutes or 15 minutes a day holding a positive thought or feeling is this supposed to counteract the force and flow of a lifetime of expectations which is the reverse don't you think that that's a little unreasonable and yet on the other hand And the happy information we have, and it doesn't take much to demonstrate it, is that it does not take a lifetime of correction in the thinking, feeling, aiming processes to change the flow of the negative thought.

If it did, I'd invite all of us to just fold up and take some souping tablets because it would be most depressing. but we are not recommending that at all. Indeed, this particular Tarot Key you see before you, the magician, tells us the secret and tells it with such profundity. The Hebrew letter on this Tarot Key base means the house in Qabalah. And the house we live in, remember, is both the vehicle, the body within which we seem to live, and the house is also our environment. It is that area of our livingness which includes our work, our relationships, as well as our eating, drinking, speaking, loving, and hating. And do not think that we are so evolved that we do not hate you need to understand this principle also but that is for another time the how we live in is the house which we have created this we all know this however thought however understanding how we have created this house is an absolute prime potential if we are going to make grave in the higher and deeper more esoteric aspects of a culture it is not enough it is really not enough to know that consciousness if it does less than us will will bring such and such results, until we see how and the subtleties that are involved in the ways that we keep building, adding bricks, rooms, and furniture to our house of life.

As we come to see this, only then are we able to interpret correctly what it is we have been doing before so that we can effectively change that which is to that which is closer to the heart's desire.

And so, again, this particular tarot key, where this symbolism and this Hebrew letter is in Qabalah, assigned to the pair of opposites, life and death.

In actuality, of course, that's which we give attention to, which means what? That's which we hold as a name. whether we consciously recognize it as our aim or not is beside the point. If we're giving attention to a thing, we are aiming.

That which we give the force and flow and fire of our attention to, this brings what we live through. This is our livingness. This is our experience.

And remember, experience is life and life is experience.

And that which we do not give our attention to, this is the other side of the face, the death. Now not all, we use the word death, remember, but we do not use it the way many, or perhaps even most, human beings, even occultists might use it.

because in the pairs of opposites, your positive factor, your positive action factor, is your reality. And the other side of the coin is merely the absence of that. It is not a reality at all. So that life is the reality, since it is beingness, it is.

And death is merely the absence of life, and since there is no such thing as the absence of life, You might say it's a matter of degree, so that at this stage of our evolution, most of us, in fact practically all of us walk around, are in a partial death.

and we feel it that way. Our emotions are partially deadened, our minds are partially deadened, or maybe they have not yet been brought to life. Maybe they have not yet grown to the full flowering as shown in the garden here of the magician. The garden, remember, symbolizes the subconscious.

And that which we give attention to is what grows in the garden of our subconsciousness and therefore becomes our living experience.

We go through life complaining about things.

Therefore, what we do, we plant seeds in this garden.

and the seeds must grow and bring us the fruit then we complain about the injustice of life and if we have very intense feelings our complaints may be so strong that we may even start fighting with God that is emotionally and sometimes mentally and trying to show God how incorrectly he's taking care of things because why we ask with weeping and with complaints why should we have to suffer say the unhappy misunderstanding of those around us why should we not be appreciated by our relatives our friends and so on especially our foes by the way we ask God with deep complaints and with profound self-pity and the profound self-pity we hold is extraordinary indeed why we ask the Lord of the universe should we have to be without certain things when look what what wonderful creatures we are. Look how noble and how dignified we are. Look how self-sacrificing and look how unselfish we are.

Why, we ask the Lord of the universe, do we not receive what we are giving and we root and we are sorrowful and we plant seeds of, I am not appreciated by my loved ones and I am not given that which I deserve.

We plant these seeds in the garden and what do you think these seeds are going to grow? I ask, we ask, we all ask, what can such seeds grow? And we plant the seed of I am not understood in the garden of subconsciousness and we have the seed come to the flower. is fruition and what other seed are we supposed to have come to fruition if we have planted the fire the life of course of an idea which says I am not appreciated what do we expect into our life experience do we expect the seed of a peach to bring forth a grapevine or is it going to bring forth a tree which will bloom with peaches the principle is truly so simple that one is almost ashamed to keep bringing it up and yet just like nothing apparently is learned with the deeper part of the spell completely repeated the repetition the repetition digs the channel deepens the channel so it is important to keep giving a repetition of this principle showing it in its positive and negative aspects so that we can start recognizing become aware become attentive given this tarot key is attention remember it's assigned to the function of attention so we can start giving attention to the way these principles work the subtlety behind them and then start doing something about it we are like individuals so often who feel that it is very unjust to get the finger burn if we put it in the fire the point is no child learns to protect himself from the fire until he sticks that finger in the fire or some part of the anatomy and has the result in blister then this child can say this sort of thing results in pain whereas if I use the fire to do this that and the other, that is to cook, to warm the house, to warm my hands, then it has very satisfactory results. It is not the fire that is bad. And why are we so unreasonable that we complain and moan and at least psychologically speaking we tear our clothes and sweep ashes on our heads and call ourselves unfortunate because we persist in using the fire of consciousness, the fire of attention, to complain about existing conditions or experiences which will naturally bring the same type and usually more so because everything we've used consistently grows and grows and grows our Alice in Wonderland has that lovely little story about how you can just keep growing and growing if you discover that it's also possible to shift So we need to understand, and to understand it not in terms of self-reproach, because Because, mind you, the moment you reproach yourself for anything, you have planted the seed of reproach in subconsciousness, in that garden.

And therefore, something is going to grow, which will bring the type of experience that involves reproach, whether it is self-reproach or the reproach of others. of course the first thing we really need to know the really first thing as a cultist we need to know is it is it really true is it really true that consciousness builds that which Is it really true that consciousness is the creator? Is it? Now there are some people who are just hearing about it and say, well of course it's so. Maybe they're naive, and there are many naive people. But at least something in them says, yes, this is so. And they go to work on the general idea. For example, I know a case, and I know this case well.

There's a couple who are very dedicated in a work which performs a beautiful, loving, and compassionate service.

These two people, this man and this woman, may have been in this world for a long time. Now they're here. In working, they have knocked up again an awful lot of human beings.

Because of the evolutionary level of homo sapiens, humanity, the response from human beings in many areas of, shall we say, compassion, givingness, is very weak and sometimes not only just weak, but crude and the very reverse, with very opposite ideas involved. So that these people kept bumping up against very unpretty hearts and souls, very unsatisfactory and sorrowful experiences as they tried to reach out for help, since in the kind of work they were in that required cooperation and help from others. Now then, what did they do? Almost immediately from the feeling of dedicated, ecstatic, and lustrous service, which, incidentally, they continued as far as the need to serve, they started to put force into this emotion of people are you know what. Think of three letters and they used it. They did not use it rarely. They used it often. People are that. And they started, and you could hear in their tone, the emotional tone, the terribleness of what people were. The lancet in their hearts was very apparent.

parents. So that although it is true they ran up against the negative responses of people.

Don't forget they ran up against these negative responses to begin with because they had unrealistic expectations. Remember what we said about the law of consciousness working, not just so as is but along with this power was the absolute necessity to know what the principles were and within the rules and principles have to be a realistic evaluation of the capacity to respond of the level or approximate level of response of the general population this isn't calling them evil or being negative or planting negative seeds in the garden of subconsciousness this is merely recognizing that you cannot expect a nine-year-old child to do as good a cleaning job in a house as you would from an adult it is not thinking of people in terms of good and evil just evaluating the ability of human being evaluation is vital in a cultism and if we wonder sometimes why some people have the poor results we can start looking to that area as one of the important reasons it's because they have not done enough work on their evaluation they have not been willing to look at things and people as they are in order to be able to hold their positive images of the realistic way which the universal principles will flow in terms of correction and foretaste. But these individuals had an unrealistic realistic acceptation, and they permitted it to embitter their hearts and souls.

The result was that everyone who came to work for them took advantage of them, souls, lives.

The result was that though these people were working in a work that required great compassion and dedication what they received was not only in gratitude but it was fantastic and unbelievable every way they turned they were betrayed they were betrayed continuously because they held the bitter feeling that no one can be trusted and if no one can be trusted our life brings it to us. They were rich creators of their experience. Their complaints became ever more their realities, and the realities of these complaints became ever more fantastically hellish, just plain hellish. And even just recently with these same people. They had at last attracted a a secretary who had never been in occultism, but she had become quite impressed with two or three of the very elementary metaphysical books on the idea that one must love, think the best of other people, hold positive expectations, that God is in charge and guiding, and we are going from the less to the more consistently.

Well, this secretary was the first and only one who was accurate, who was efficient, and who came and worked at a fantastically small salary, fantastically small.

Yet, these two people, instead of flowing with gratitude for all the wonderful qualities and the great need that this secretary fulfilled, found themselves putting much emotion into the irritations of this secretary or personality, because she did come from a rather dogmatic, narrow religious background.

She held to this dogmatic, narrow religious background. All she did was incorporate her newfound determination to hold positive, loving thoughts. in terms of her situation.

And they found themselves becoming terribly irritated with what they called Pollyanna attitudes, with her lack of understanding of their problems because if they said such and such a person is a so-and-so, she said, oh, no, they're not that bad. This made the dedicated ones feel antagonistic and irritated towards the secretary, who, incidentally, was a very naive human being and unrealistic and rather lacking in a profound or mental response to life, is true. Nevertheless, they put emotion and irritation and rancor into the reaction, the result being, which is what? This is rejected. objective. They were grasping on these negative spots in the secretary. The result was this secretary, who was of an age which makes it very difficult to find a position, this was one of the reasons she stayed for this long, decided she was pushed emotionally into going out and hunting for another one. and she just got another job that pays her three times as much.

And as you see, it isn't a large salary. That's how small her salary was. That pays her three times as much as the one she has. She is in seventh heaven. She has improved her condition, and yet she is not a dedicated scholar.

She does not have an emotional depth or reach or true growth, but from where she is, what she has, she has been using positively.

And so for her personally, the improvement has come, whereas the other human beings, who incidentally as souls are really much more highly evolved, have brought about another great catastrophe, because the need for secretaries can do these things, that's indeed. So you see, we can be very deep and profound souls, we can be even vandals souls, yet we can manufacture tales beyond description, and indeed we do a much better job of it than the average human being and fly for this reason. The more powerful the flow of water, say, along a certain area, the more deeply it digs its topless, don't you see? The more rushed the force and the flow, the more powerful the effect, the more of a dynamo you have. So that in occultism, the great danger in occultism truly is this, that the more highly evolved, and it's difficult to know what is and what is not highly evolved, that of course we can't discuss here, that requires some talk.

but the more highly evolved we are as so the less we can afford to hold what is in at least the elementary metaphysics called negative thoughts the less we can afford to hold the complaining the disillusion the hating and all the other elements that surround these traits the less we can afford it because you see there's more force involved automatically and the more force that flows to the center the more quickly you have results and the more catastrophically often we will hear aspirants and the culture say why is it that such-and-such and such-and-such who has been studying and meditating doing so still is such a mess look at the kind of life he or she leaves they are confused they're bewildered they wonder why well the why has two answers number one we we've just given that particular answer if you have a great deal of force you're going to your seed grows more rapidly you you leap your crop in the garden far more rapidly than you ever could because you're putting more sunshine and cycle-forcing process in a hot house, don't you see?

And that's good because that's what you might call the stepped-up rate of evolution that finally forces us into getting a determined area in the consciousness most, aims at analyzing why this is occurring with such consistency. That is, unhappy experiences, insecurity experiences, unhappy love affairs, marriages, relationships in whatever area, or just plain nothing seeming to happen at all. Then, when we reach the point where we are truly willing to start aiming at the proper interpretation of what it is that has been the causative factor of the nonsense that we manufacture. Then we become in a, that is, we come to a point where we are able to more effectively do something about a continuous continuous aim in a proper direction. And we start catching ourselves. Remember, this tarot key is assigned to the function of attention. We remind you again and again. We start giving attention to the everyday, every hour, every moment, thinking, feeling, and responding, which is never forget building our relationships and our tomorrow but back to the point that we were trying to make the first essential is you know is it true that consciousness is the real creator we have to truly know this there is that there are those who intuitively because they live somehow on that innocent intuitive level they have not yet eaten of the apple of the tree of life of good and evil where they go out and make all these errors that brings the discrimination with them. It's really behind it, you know. There's a good portion of them still in the Garden of Eden. We have to be thrown out first before we can come back as kings in the pot of their country. That's again another thought that we will deal shortly.

So there were those who, because of their naive state of development, automatically accepted without any proof. Then there are those who have already been roaming in the highways and byways of sorrow and frustration, which has developed an acute mental faculty, though usually incorrectly used, who need to have absolute evidence that this is so, or at least so they say. Now, the true occultist falls in the category of the one who must have some kind of evidence that consciousness does create.

And sometimes the true occultist will receive the obvious evidence quickly.

Other times he can be very, very stubborn, like I was in my earlier days, and it takes a great deal more convincing for some strange reason. It is very sad to be stubborn, but in the long run it gives a lot more valuable data at any rate, so we have something constructive resulting. Now then, the question, is it true that consciousness creates, is very easily answered by those who want to take the trouble to find out. Of course, we assume that each and every one of us have taken this trouble. Nevertheless, teaching and occult growth does not happen to be a reception of something right or vast and new with every word, phrase, and focus. It happens to be aimed very definitely at bringing certain thoughts home in a greater emotional, with greater emotional vividness, so as to be able to utilize these principles, these ideas more effectively. Therefore, even though we assume that each and every one of us have certainly done some investigating, we need to remind each other about what our findings are.

Because there again, you see, we fall asleep, we go into the death part of this card, which is not attention, and then we keep manufacturing the complaints which manufacture tears. And that was both of this. So what do we do to verify this basic principle? If this isn't true, all else falls by the board. Well, of course, in our era, we are very fortunate that a good, deceased portion of what we call modern science has become interested enough to go in for certain experimentations, like in parapsychology, professor, Lime, and worked at the Duke University. And what he showed, you may say, he didn't show that consciousness creates, but wait a minute. Here's what proper thinking means.

He showed that consciousness has vast power.

That consciousness has the power to communicate with other centers of consciousness, regardless of time or space. This has been scientifically scientifically proven and in as much as we all sort of adore the word scientifically and Feel that that makes us more valid. Let's use it and then so we can say to ourselves That certain scientific procedures have been used To prove without any questions that consciousness has the power to project to other centers of consciousness regardless of time or space at a distance and things that have to do with either the past the present or the future this power has been definitely shown we need to go to the library and get the book that have been written on these experiments and analyze them we know that much then that this has been shown so many thousands of cases we have been studied and we have other books we have other literature aside from the scientific field we have it in the religious field we have it in the mystical field this is fine still not our own knowing but at least it gives us this beginning it it makes us know that those who have training and therefore whose evidence and whose experiments we should respect have gone this way to give us something which is perhaps more important to know than anything else on the face of the earth there are some who say the most important thing to know is if a man dies does he live again this is vital we say the most important thing to know is this does consciousness create period and when we say create we exclude nothing there's a physical universe and everything in it there are therefore all the evolutionary factors and then therefore for consciousness itself, that is the expansion of its own awareness or beingness.

Because it's from that, if consciousness creates, and if we think and analyze, we know we don't have to wonder if man dies, shall he live again? Because what created us?

if our center of consciousness created us everything else then it was before we were born and it knew how to create this group of conditions which make us experience ourselves in this particular way through this particular vehicle with this particular kind of phenomena And if we were before, well then it is sort of lacking in mentality to say that we will not be afterwards that which would know how to bring about the growth from a one-celled creature to experience oneself in this miracle, this amazing, glorious miracle which we call our body. certainly that being our consciousness if it could do that why should we worry about whether if a man dies shall he live again it's very apparent to the thinking mind and heart and if it's consciousness that has been from forever to forever and creates there's only one thing that matters only one to understand the laws of consciousness so that we can consciously apply our laws of consciousness is incidentally our destiny.

This is the destiny of all senses of consciousness. And the fact that we sit together reaching together is just part of the way that the destiny is being brought about for and towards fruition.

So we can find in the literature from experiments made by those who are well trained to make these experiments that consciousness has amazing power.

Nevertheless, that's not enough.

No amount of books is going to give me the enjoyment of a meal. no amount of cookbook going to give me the substance a cookbook will just tell me how to cook a meal if I am so disposed where I want to cook which incidentally I don't some nuts and some fruits that's why I need a great deal more good deal of the time though there's some cooked meals I don't know the deliciousness of it but that's just being an aside it helps you our minds relax and can go back to a point more readily if we just say something that may even sound silly it relaxes the attention and then we receive more after that the reason for bringing in a little bit of nonsense here and there except for a part of sense of humor which is not a good reason nevertheless we have to know right then the next thing we must do is go back over our lives and start analyzing what we have truly done with our consciousness and what our life experiences have been now this is not easy and anyone who tells you what is easy is either self-deceived or a liar nevertheless it is doable and the entire work of builders of the additum every last step of it from beginning to end it aims at making it as easy as it is possible to be for each and every aspirant to take that amazing center of consciousness and point it to the within in order to understand how consciousness creates and has created all the experiences that we have in our lives and we need to know how to understand what a power of creation happens to be the fact that we may have loved somebody dearly and yet been betrayed you see we don't understand the laws of consciousness when we say you see that disproves the principle doesn't disprove it at all we may have thought we loved someone dearly where all we loved was the idea of that someone loving us and being true to us and making us the center of that person's universe in order to expand our own egos yet we called it love it's amazing isn't it and the important thing also is to be very willing to discover that where we thought we were so loving we were perhaps not only less than loving but the very reverse it's very important to be willing to discover that where we thought we were being unselfish we haven't been unselfish at all people go out and they do all sorts of lovely things for other people at times let's say and unhappily this is a rough estimate don't hold me to my mathematics let's say three quarters of the time we may go out and do something that is considered unselfish i wonder if you realize how rarely it was a truly unselfish motive i wonder if you know that the motive may have just been it was very important for us to think of ourselves as unselfish so we did it we didn't do it for the other person we did it to boost ourselves in our own eyes because we need to walk around feeling we are responsible we are spiritual we are loving we are dignified we take ourselves seriously and it keeps us from seeing the immaturities in the heart which needs transmutation and if we get upset and we beat our chest bang our heads against the wall we're real dramatic we'll do it that way and I'm all for being dramatic because it brings the results a little more rapidly.

In other words, whatever we do, we should really do well. And if we're going to be knocking ourselves on the head, I think we should knock ourselves out because then we'll understand it more fully and more rapidly.

But our picture of ourselves, you see, it's so important. We've taken from the books we've read from Mama and Papa and Aunt Gussie and Uncle Ruzis and whatnot, all these conditionings, we've taken ideas. What is it to be a really wonderful human being where everybody will love you and tell tell to you and one of these things where you can say, thank you, my audience. You see, we go through life, the great performance, wanting everybody to be thinking and feeling in such ways about it that in our hearts we will sort of be making our curses saying, oh my audience, oh my audience. And as we often remind everybody, really the audience isn't applauding because everybody is doing the same thing, expecting everybody is applauding them. And when we have a little bit of a sense of humor, if you see it isn't so terrible that we've been unselfish where we thought we were selfish.

It isn't so terrible that we thought this and that about the others. It's part of the growth process. What's so terrible about stumbling when you're learning how to walk?

It's amazing how quickly the real thing comes. See, he who truly has a sense of responsibility from the depth doesn't have to be broadcast.

He who truly has love doesn't have to go out every place and proving and telling and showing and giving stories about how loving they've been and therefore complaining about, oh, these terrible ungrateful wretches, the world.

Ungrateful wretches, the world. We don't need to. When we have it, it just doesn't even occur to us. you know Shakespeare's we think of the lady does the test too much so we need to watch our attitude towards ourselves what we're thinking what was feeling how important it is to us to be presenting these faces and these pictures and we're really although we think we're presenting these performances for others it's really for ourselves and that's all right once you get rise to the fact that it's for yourself you'll give a much better performance and then you'll start enjoying the performance then you'll really start expanding then you won't be complaining uh you'll be aiming because you'll be able to hold your attention proper places then life will be so much more charming and whatever we do don't you think just i mean out of sheer compassion don't Don't you think it's up to us to make life a little more charming for ourselves and others?

So let's stop complaining and start aiming at the things we truly want to grow in the Garden of Life, both for our own sake and certainly for the sake of all that live, all that live. My title for this morning's talk...
