Our title for this morning is, If God Went on a Vacation.

Because actually we're not going to speak about what the title sounds like, as we rarely do of course. Nevertheless, it's a very good title and has a place in what we're going to discuss together this morning.

Because this being June, and human beings being what they are, what they're sold, slipping into their usual patterns of, oh my, I've had such a rough time and I've been running around and this has been pressuring me and they have been even more unreasonable than usual at my place of business or work and so on and so on. I've got to have a vacation.

and off we have a tendency to go unfortunately taking ourselves with us or fortunately whichever the case may be it depends doesn't it we take ourselves with us and usually come back from whatever we call our vacations are more exhausted more tense more disturbed and in less of a position to take up our responsibilities than we were before we were sighing mourning and rushing rushing rushing to run away from ourselves although we called it by some beautiful name now this is what usually happens of course there are a few of us we hope there are a few of us who when we go on what is called a vacation do not go with this attitude we go to gather more material more riches with which to help re-inspire what we call our usual habit patterns because we have not yet learned that there's no such thing as sameness we have fallen into the trap of thinking that because we arrive at a certain place in the morning those of us who work or if we are housewives because we take up the same or what appears to be the same ritual each morning that we are doing the same thing this is the greatest fallacy of all part of the whole illusion under which human consciousness labors because in as much as the satellite our moon whirls around the planet all the planets whirl about the sun the sun with this planet's world around some central nucleus in the solar system not from one instant to the next are we in the same place and whatever it is we're doing we're not doing it where we were at all we are citizens of heaven and we do not know it because like the moles we're sort of buried in the earth of habit pattern so we permit ourselves to moan and sigh and groan we delude ourselves into thinking that we are exactly in the same place and yet our state of mind and heart is really never the same from one instant to the next though we think it is if we were depressed a moment ago and are still depressed now we're still not in the same state in that instance we have thrown out innumerable electrons if you recall the electrons are those little sparks of energy which is said to whirl around the central nucleus and together they're called an atom we have thrown out innumerable electrons and atoms there are innumerable cells which have died and others born or being reborn our organism is different as well as the place upon which we dwell or within which we function being different and our state of mind is different because there are certain thoughts have flashed through our consciousness certain emotions so that we cannot be the same from one instant to the next and here is another delusion under which we labor and we think that other people are always the same. This again is a delusion. Just as we cannot be the same from one instance to the next, so are other people in a continuous state of flux. And when we become bound and tied to some occurrence in the past, when we hang on with our emotions to some past, shall we say, love or hate or betrayal or resentment or boredom.

It's because we are not reacting to the flux and change of the more real state of our beingness. We're reacting to yesterday.

This indeed is one of the greatest problems. and yet this whole principle of reacting to yesterday is a very vital one because in order to function in this what we call phenomenal universe in order to gain experience to get to know it to have the grand adventure this whirling chain in order to do this we have to learn how to to see certain states of motion or vibration in a certain way.

And if you recall, we have mentioned before, we have to learn how to see even with our physical eyes.

An infant cannot see.

We interpret a certain impact upon the sensory apparatus and consciousness then gives it a name and says I am seeing this or that not realizing that what is a seeing is not the same this or that if we knew this with our hearts and souls we'd never know what boredom means again we would never become fixated in our relationship so that we come aboard to ourselves and to others or permit others to become bored in relation to us. Because we would know that wherever we look, we would know that whatever contacts we have, this is some new experience, forever new, forever changing, never, never the same. That's one of the reasons we use this tarot key for the particular title we have today. The Wheel of Fortune is a representation of the eternal motion of life. The eternal flux, the chain, the whirling motion, remember, because as it is taught in Qabalah, the beginning of all things, the one, the indivisible, the true self, the function for this true self is called the beginning of the whirling. And you may ask now by what astonishing set of fixations does a human consciousness or even a group of human consciousnesses dare to describe what begins God's work God's consciousness and it would be a very good question indeed if this is what you feel are we are pleased but remember there are those whose awareness though quite excellent in the phenomenal universe in and the phenomenal universe remember kabbalistically is not what it seems it's a state of whirling activity and motion which consciousness interprets in a certain way consciousness becomes accustomed to this motion in order to explain this to you in more simple language for example in as much as every physical thing is made up of atoms and in as much as every atom is something which has never truly been described you know we get we've given it a name When we say we, it sounds like I place myself in the category with the physicists and scientists.

And I do this deliberately, as you know, in order to sound very learned, because I feel that inasmuch as I'm familiar with at least a good percentage of the terminology, I am just as qualified as they are to interpret it, inasmuch as no one can truly interpret what a thing is. and the wise scientists acknowledge they do not know what electricity is.

They only know how it acts. Therefore, they learn how to use it. They don't know what physical matter is. They only know how different kinds of physical matter act.

And so they learn how to handle it for special uses.

Therefore, I feel that I am qualified to place myself in this category.

and I hope we haven't got a fully trained scientist here to become disturbed and have the vanity or ego upset because I feel that the the cabalistic training qualifies me perhaps at least slightly more than it does most to give an interpretation to this whole emotion which we call the physical universe it. What is then this table, this altar? It's made out of whirling motion, of light. But this light or this whirling motion, these atoms, whatever they are, group themselves in a certain pattern. Therefore, the physical universe merely, well, merely, doesn't it sound like it's nothing?

Nothing at all. This physical universe is merely the various groupings or forms or force fields which hold certain atoms within a certain limitation, a limited radiance. And this can be said to be true of all physical things.

Then the next question is, well, what holds these whirling atoms, these points of light, this energy, in a specific form or what appears like a form or what we interpret as a form.

What is it that does it? And the answer given in Qabalah is consciousness.

So then the next question is, what is consciousness?

Ah, if you think I shall answer that, you're mistaken.

I could give you some answers which would be merely words.

And you would think that I was very brilliant to know what consciousness was, and you would think you had an explanation and a description.

And you would leave here feeling that you had gained very wonderful knowledge, and that I was most brilliant to know these things. And it would be a very happy state for us all to be in, but it wouldn't be based on reality. and as you know we are obligated we are absolutely obligated to do everything we can to help point our consciousness our hearts, our minds to reality to discover what is reality and what is unreality in order to live more closely to that which we call God the One, the Lord of the Universe since we do attribute to this one life God, the Lord of the Universe, the Indivisible the beginning of the whirlings we do attribute to that the conscious creative power and indeed what else can we do? a typewriter cannot manufacture itself self. How much less can the amazing organization and activity of any form whatsoever?

We cannot interpret consciousness and Qabalah. Remember, Jehovah is really not called Jehovah. the four Hebrew letters Yod, He, Wah, He which you hear in Cone at the end of the service. These are really the four letters which when you want to pronounce them and spell them out might spell Jehovah but what they are are the actual letters called Tetragrammaton and what they mean is that which was, that which is and that which will be. That covers everything doesn't it? Pretty smart.

And that is a tribute to the creative consciousness. Now why a tribute consciousness to this one vast creator? Well in as much as I think it is rather the logical to assume that whatever creates must have intention in other words a typewriter isn't going to happen by happenstance there must be an intention in a consciousness to gather the materials to bring together whatever groups and forces are necessary to utilize these materials materials to organize them in such a way to build them so that the final result is an instrument which can do a specific thing.

Now, if a simple typewriter, those of you who cannot type might think it's not so simple, but truly any mechanism is simple. The most complex mechanism that the most brilliant mind of man can create is simple indeed to just the miracle and complexity of being able to lift one muscle in a living organism but we won't go into that or we'll be here all day and then what about those vacations but the complex complex function of living matter and it isn't just humanity any little bird any little creature any little crawling livingness upon the face of the earth any tree any leaf all of these things have a complex function and do amazing chemical things amazingly astonishing chemical things so that all the brilliant scientists on this planet still do not understand how one little leaf on a tree can immediately extract the energy from the sun in order to build itself this chemical complexity and it isn't really simple so that it can absorb and feed itself and us although we may not eat the leaves we eat plants' lives the typewriter couldn't build itself or have an intention in relation to itself self we would therefore be very lacking in true reason true insight true awareness if we fail to recognize that there must be some extraordinary creative consciousness that's able to bring about out the kind of complex organisms or machines because what is a machine and we do not mean that in the materialistic sense which can do and take care of certain functions and yet then here is another miracle here is another miracle that's involved these complex machines which we may call like a typewriter not only have the ability to question what made me how did I come to into this complexity and come to develop these extraordinary functions but this complex piece of machinery living matter our organisms something knows how to keep them functioning by themselves in other words with a typewriter i have to sit down and type on it but with a living organism apparently we type on ourselves ourselves very poor analogy but we do those things and we repair ourselves a typewriter cannot say oh my i must be in the hinge and start applying oil through a circulatory system to some part of the organism but something you know becomes aware of it and knows how to do it of course there's some of us develop very painful ailments and maybe this is the time when god's on vacation and maybe not anyway something seems to be off doesn't it when we are full of sorrow when we fail to see the miracle that abounds about us but particularly if the joint hurts or a heart bangs or a tooth aches uh that miracle which beats the heart and forces the lungs to breathe and absorb oxygen and throw out the darknesses that abound in the organism as a result of its functions apparently currently the circulation to all parts of the cell structure which remember are little consciousnesses little consciousnesses something in us knows how to do all these amazing things besides looking out and interpreting motion taking in an impact of something and then in our own consciousness interpreting it as a tree a dog or you know what when we don't like what we're seeing and or a beloved all depending on the interpretation consciousness chooses to put upon the impact of these outer elements that are taking place the impact of energy now the point is this if we as individuals have an awareness and a questioning about this type of phenomena. If we have what it takes to wonder, which we do, even the most dull of human beings at times does wonder, at least we think so. Of course we love humanity and we're rather optimistic and we like to attribute the very finest, at least its potential, so it's not a present actuality so if human consciousness can do this there could be a very interesting reason something all occultists are familiar with but you see one of our problems is this my beloved sisters and brothers because we have become accustomed to a concept we have fallen in the same trap that the people who become become accustomed to thinking and feeling about yesterday and other occurrences as the same thing, becoming bored and then having to moan and groan about a vacation. This is our problem. We become accustomed to the idea that we have given lip service to the fact that our consciousness must in some way be an aspect of the consciousness of the one once in as much as again in qabalah we say that there can be nothing outside of god nothing at all if there were then there'd be something else besides the one creative intelligence and our minds cannot encompass it and if our minds can then we should go to a mental institution where perhaps they can cure us and use perhaps not but we cannot with our consciousness truly those of us who meditate and think deeply think of anything that could possibly be outside of this one life therefore again following this premise this theory this idea we must think of ourselves as being inside the one life well in alchemy we always bring up as above so below as below so above it's a mistake to separate the physical from the spiritual those of us who do it have learned to hate the physical and in hating the physical we're hating god and this is not being materialistic because if we're hating that which god expresses we're off on a binge and of course hating the physical or the physical universe because we're too spiritual for it will lead us into many unhappy experiences because that which you hate it disintegrates it's a force emotion is a force and when your physical environment starts to disintegrate in such ways that people treat you very abominably and actually you have caused it and your own physical organism starts to develop all kinds of very unhappy problems we we begin to learn that when we hate we're merely using the destructive the force of the universe which is fine we need it but we have to learn where to use it where it belongs we have to learn how to destroy the old outmoded patterns and not that which is a miracle we have to interpret our experiences correctly but we will give that more fully in the class which we're starting Thursday because it takes longer talk and in fact much more than one as you know so consciousness in as much as we have it and in as much as we go on the assumption at least though believe me my darlings there are many of us who do not think of it as assumption at all we know of course we also know many people said father divine of god and sits on a throne and if you suspect that our kind of knowing is that kind of knowing well maybe you have a lot of discrimination but maybe you also lack a lot of a lot of intuition because there does happen to be knowing and knowing and we need to carefully watch and see which is the correct and which is the incorrect which is based on fallacy and which is based on reality so our consciousness also creates how can we prove this of course we don't have to prove it to ourselves we who are studying occultism so deeply but we do need to remind ourselves and that's why we speak of it we have known it too long and therefore we have lost the miracle of the feeling of it this is one perhaps of the many important reasons that we must come together to remind each other and you may think well it's just i who am reminding you but this isn't true you are reminding me as well everything thing as a back and forth flow your hearts and souls project to me i receive and give you back what you're asking or yearning for in terms of your own needs so to say well i know this because i read it in this book or studied it in that lesson doesn't mean we know it at all we know nothing until we have directly perceived and experienced it and even then we only know it for a time we fall back into the habitual pattern of thinking we have to keep knowing it and knowing it until we know that as habitually as we knew the other that's why it's so important to come together and speak about these things which may not be new but we get new slant new insight new new inspirations, new firing to apply the ideas and remember and remember and remember it again.

So you see, back then again to the idea of consciousness, creating, my favorite analogy is the dream.

We all dream. Some do not remember the dreams at all. Some remember them very little. Nevertheless, we all dream. and while we are dreaming all our senses are experiencing the same things they experience when we are apparently not dreaming things are solid indeed they are and our hearts rejoice and we also weep we are filled with fears and we are filled with humiliations and very rarely because few of us have pleasant dreams to that extreme in our dreams at times sometimes we love profoundly and are fulfilled now what is happening these are experiences we see we hear we taste we touch we love we hate we run with fear or we run with an effort to change and conquer all these things we do in a dream and while we are dreaming they are real now there are a few of us and sometimes all of us at times but part of us knows we are dreaming this doesn't stop the dream does it but we know we are dreaming and this is wonderful by the way because it is part of the same process that must occur in this our so-called waking state in order to help us see reality more clearly in order to help us look at a table or a tree any kind of form and see what it really is not how we have interpreted it only falling into the habit pattern of always seeing it that way and that's when we start experiencing the universe as being a continuous living miracle that's when we start living in heaven we don't have to die indeed if we die we're just going to have to come back and have some more experiences until we learn to live in heaven here on earth this is the reason for reincarnation and those of us who do not accept reincarnation that's all right anyway because whether we accept the fact that if you turn the switch the electricity comes on or not it doesn't change the fact that it will and in time we will press the switch and see that it happens so it's not important really to accept an idea idea blindly though if it if we can hold this concept as being logical and at least act as if it was so we make it uh we put ourselves in a position of being able to press that switch a little sooner which is a valuable thing to do and then what have we got to lose so it might be well worthwhile don't you think now as we dream and things seem real we might say that in the physical universe according to capitalistic teaching and many many mystics have experienced just this it isn't a theory at all to these untold thousands know it directly the experience which can come and does come is in knowing that everything that exists this. It's part of the swirling, or we experience it as swirling. Let's say this, as the motion of the consciousness of God. You are the motion of the consciousness of God. I am the motion of the consciousness of God. My little dog and my very naughty kitty and my very majestic the cat, the leaf on the tree, and the criminal that we cannot leave anything out, the criminal who has committed an atrocious act, and the saint who has done something glorious. All of these, and always let's return to ourselves, we, because we want to take something out of here that's going to help us personally we are a motion in the consciousness of god now of course this is just a term what does it mean you have to directly experience the thing to know what it means no description of what any item of food tastes like is going to give you any understanding of it until you've tasted yourself the techniques of builders of the adytum the techniques of bota are aimed at training you and teaching you how to experience these things directly.

And as we know, because most human beings run hither, thither, and yon, looking for the fast way out, they keep running from one thing to another, which promises them the secret of all power instantly and immediately.

And the poor darlings keep running. Well, that's all right, too. Eventually, they'll get out of breath. but the direct experience of this marvelous glorious fact that which is truly known by untold numbers of aspirants who have gone through the studies meditations and disciplines to discover it and know it is that everything that exists is emotion in the consciousness of God. Now then, the question came, well, suppose the motion stopped. Would it all disappear?

You see, if God went on a vacation, really, it would have to imply that God's consciousness suddenly stopped. Boom. And if such a thing could occur, then just in that boom there'd be nothing that is nothing that is experienceable in terms of the differentiation in the terms of you and me this and that it would just disappear where well when we say where again we haven't experienced reality do we have a where when we're dreaming into the mind if god went on a vacation So could it be that the poor Lord of the Universe is just stuck and can't take a vacation?

You know that is a very sad thought, or is it?

However let's not become too upset for the sake of God, because again remember the dream analogy.

when we go to sleep with our self-consciousness there is something that is so clever oh sometimes it seems to me it's diabolically clever when it wakes you up with a nagging pain but nevertheless aside from that there is something so diabolically clever when there is pain and so gloriously magnificently astonishing that it keeps everything running to perfection we continue to breathe we rest it's a heaven truly sleep is a heaven on earth a true heaven on earth especially that we choose to call the dreamless sleep which isn't that at all we have to evolve the bug in our organism to experience what it really is but even in sleep nevertheless all the organization of our specific beingness continues to function to circulate if in our sleep we've been on our arm too long and an arm has become uncomfortable without waking up we just manufacture ourselves a dream about something that will make us turn around and we usually will not wake up sometimes we do this is how startlingly fabulous is the consciousness in us and do not separate that consciousness which we call subconsciousness or is it you know we give things terms and names and things we know we think we know what it is we'll explain that in our next course which we're starting Thursday. But we think we've explained a thing when we say, well, subconsciousness continues to run it. The question is, what is subconsciousness? And how come? How does it know how? And so on and so on, enough to make the head really whirl. And whirling is a good term, because apparently the motion of consciousness is whirling, since everything else whirls, and as above, so below. We might as well admit that probably consciousness world and maybe the reason we're in so much trouble is because like a child just starting to whirl or someone who's developing an acrobatic ability and these whirling dances hasn't become accustomed to this motion it might be that we're such a dizzy lot and go in for so much nonsense because we are sort of dizzy with the whirl of the motion of consciousness not having become accustomed yet to handling consciously the kind of motion which living in the physical universe implies. But we all acclimate ourselves. This is absolutely guaranteed by every mystic, true mystic, and every true teaching on the face of the earth. And we ask you for the sake of comfort to accept this guarantee, at least temporarily then our consciousness really doesn't go on a vacation our self-consciousness retires to a sort of rest period which is you might call a vacation but there is another part of our consciousness keeps everything going all right we'll say what about death does consciousness then go on a vacation at death. Well, all the findings from the psychical research, from the scientific field in this area, the Duke University for instance, Lines, all the findings, all the experimentations that have been done would indicate that when we die consciousness consciousness does not go on a vacation, that is on a vacation in terms of completely withdrawing awareness or losing awareness. Because what is apparently indicated here is that consciousness switches its attention from that group of vibrations which we call a physical universe to another aspect or element or group of vibrations which we call we just give it a name the astral universe which is really focusing the self-consciousness on what is called the subconscious part of our consciousness don't you see so even there you can't say god or an aspect of god which we call a person went on a vacation it merely merely switched the focus of operations and of course we hope sometimes to give more of an explanation of what occurs with consciousness in those spheres in as much as we can speak from personal experience we have died many times reincarnationally and we can learn to die consciously right here too and know So, if God went on a vacation is really a very foolish title, but you know you need titles and it can lend itself to at least explaining to you why this is absolutely an impossible concept.

To show that the fact that the universe is would indicate that God's consciousness is holding this picture like we hold the picture of the dream only it isn't the same an analogy must never be taken 100 exact it's merely trying to show that you can have what is physical and it being actually a form and consciousness however never make the mistake of thinking that because the universe is said to be a form or a complex form held in god's consciousness that it's unreal like our dreams are unreal after all what could be more real in god's consciousness and if you think it's really unreal just kick something hard consciousness is quite determined that we experience this form held in the divine consciousness exactly as it is given and not even the most enlightened adept, this usually is not realized, not the most enlightened adept ever loses awareness while in a physical organism, because this physical organism is for purposes of experiencing the forms that God holds in this particular vibrational pattern. Not even the most enlightened addict loses the experience of form as such it's just that having experience with consciousness consciously the aspect that creates it or at least a more extended aspect of the creating consciousness he knows it for what it is he doesn't get lost in the idea that is ecstatic or that he is stuck in this or that he knows himself as a being in fluid motion and all life is being in fluid motion he therefore does not weep over the things we weep over but he's smart he'll rejoice over most of the things we rejoice with because he knows that it's nice to rejoice that the chuckle of life that the experience of the adventure of awareness and livingness that perhaps this is one of the purposes of experiencing life at all that is life in terms of the phenomenal universe now then we might ask well suppose within the consciousness of the universal life or god there were the same phenomena like occurs within us death this switching of attention from the physical universe to say the astral universe well but this is so otherwise how come how come that certain individuals die nevertheless consciousness is still in motion it hasn't gone off anywhere it's just decided to hold its attention in a certain sphere before going back to another rate of vibration for purposes of making a stronger impact upon consciousness so it isn't what you might call truly a vacation it's merely like going from one room to another in the office and i quite rather question that god gets tired because we mustn't make the mistake of becoming too answerable morphic and lots of us do although at times it doesn't hurt as long as we do it consciously and know that we're doing it consciously like having a little argument with god here and there helps to develop the chuckle the feeling of relationship between that divine and ourselves these things all have their place so remember that one of the things more apt to wake us up from being deluded by a static condition or the reality of a condition fearing a condition will stay that way is a nightmare in a nightmare we will force ourselves to wake up and then we will sigh with relief that it was only a dream remember that the sorrows the frustration the tears the heartaches which is the lot of everyone from time to time which come our way remember these might be similar to that nightmare that forces us to wake up it intensifies consciousness it brings consciousness with it makes consciousness emotion bring itself together with a fiery will to get out which means wake up and when we wake up we start seeing the dream for what it was and gradually we develop the ability to experience the phenomenal universe the miracle the livingness the reality because it's all real it's the way we interpret it that isn't so real remember remember that it's real enough to experience all of the aspects of life in such a way that we know that it is in flux in change and that if we have to go through a particularly difficult terrain or floating through the river if we have to be gassed against the fall let's remember that we can wake ourselves up by hanging on to what is symbolized in this tarot key by the figure on the top and in the 14th tarot key it is symbolized and incidentally the 14th tarot key and it's very closely tied up you know because this tarot key is assigned to the planet jupiter those of you who know astrology and the 14th tarot key is assigned to sagittarius of which Jupiter is the ruler so they are very closely tied up together in their psychological effect upon our consciousness and therefore we say by trying making that effort like we make during a nightmare to get to the place on the wheel where the top figure is or by placing ourselves mentally creatively imaginatively into the figure of the holy guardian angel of the 14th tarot piece this is the way we can help to wake ourselves up and pull ourselves out of the tears the sorrow the frustration the anger and start seeing again the miracle the beauty the love the wonder of this adventure through which our consciousness is traveling and we don't have to worry about God going on a vacation in any case I hope you don't mind us using this title
