The title of the talk.

Contacting Adepts Through Tarot Meditation.

Now, as you know, I've often tried to point out to you that we have a great deal of confusion in relation to the idea as to what an adept is. Is. Some people think an adept is a master. Some people think an adept is one who has passed all tests and has no more problems. Most spiritual aspirants, when they hear the word adept, their hearts lift with eagerness to become one. And of course, those of you who have heard previous talks of mine or have proceeded with the lessons that you received through the mail and certainly at least in the advanced courses would have come to realize that being an adept does not mean that one is a master nor does being Being an adept necessarily means being anything as extraordinary as we usually think, because actually everything is more or less relative. In other words, certainly a ten-year-old child is an adept if it is compared to the five-year-old child when it comes to mental motor coordination. And certainly the ten-year-old child is an adept in relation to the five-year-old child, or if you want to compare these two areas or levels of development when it comes to the ability to read. However, the ten-year-old child, what is this 10 year old child in relation to the 15 year old child, see we're jumping the next five years, in relation to mental motor coordination and or the in relation to ability to read. If this child has continued to practice reading and if no Felix must be pink sorry and if nice to be able to think of three things at once twice too easily three slightly more effort not much and if this child has really worked at trying to develop reading not by trying but by being interested because all development has to do with interest if you're not interested your efforts do not bear fruit because the mind wanders away and you can't absorb things in any case it's interest that comes from desire that's why desire starts all things in any case wherever you can say desire has been deep enough this is where you will have had a concentration of interest and this concentration of interest will have developed ability and this ability will have developed adeptship in that particular area. So to be an adept means what? It means to be adept in certain areas. Now you're thinking, ah but a master is adept in all areas. Well this cannot really be true. Only God is adept in all areas and in order to express this all in all adeptship God definitely expresses these areas of adeptship in and through channels that have been grown or evolved which are able to receive and express, which are able to receive and develop and express these particular phases or kinds of adeptship.

So we must be clear in our minds as to what the word adept means most of us get all caught up basically because we do not realize that we must analyze our emotional reaction to words just plain words and our emotional reactions to words come about because we have decided every word has a special absolute meaning. And certain sciences have developed from this realization which are called the sciences of semantics. So we have general semantics and then we have other phases of semantics. We have dictionaries for for example, that tell us what each word means.

But then even knowing what a word means, every word takes on a different meaning in connotation with its times or its climes.

Each modern age, each group of adolescents, each group of those who rebel, develop certain subtle descriptivenesses that relate to what they mean when they use a word, which would be other than most other people think in relation to the word.

We could give a few examples.

For instance, the word baby. Now basically baby means an infant but now a man and or a woman can use the word baby as a term of endearment and yet a baby is an infant isn't it an infant of usually under a year old but it be it has developed into something that can be thought of as a term of endearment. It's also been developed into a slang term by some people, like play the game baby and as a term of familiarity between a parent adult. If I say listen baby it could also mean that I'm telling you look I'm cutting you down to size so it could mean it could it's also become a term of opprobrium you know or insult a subtle insult you see so what does a word mean now we react emotionally to a word and in as much as we react to words we become conditioned to the ideas that are behind words and becoming conditioned to the ideas that are behind words we become slaves to our own misinterpretations of words and we can raise our blood pressure we can get our heartbeat going three four five ten times higher than it ought to we can go into rebellious states we can go into states of despair we We can forget that as kids we raise our noses and sneer a little bit and say, sticks and stones can break my bones, but names will never harm me or hurt me.

We decide I'm harmed.

We act as though somebody's put us in a psychological electric chair when they use certain words. We act as though it is the supreme reality. Talk about the power of sound isn't it fabulous the power of the word isn't it extraordinary and those of us who are slaves to other people ideas or thoughts or use of word which means other people's ideas about us we then can certainly be said to be very lacking in adeptship as far as being free of the of the suggestiveness or hypnotic reaction to other people's thoughts and emotions expressed in words you know lots of people think that they are extraordinarily freely strong-minded and that they cannot for example be hypnotized I've heard many people say oh I just can't be hypnotized now in the books you read on hypnosis it is claimed that that the more intelligent people are the most easily hypnotized, and the least intelligent people cannot be hypnotized.

So to brag about the fact that we cannot be hypnotized, if it is true, it might be a wise idea to keep quiet about it, provided we all had information. You see, we use words, we don't know what we're doing, and this shows a lack of adeption. And we're not using powers the power of sound the power of the word in the beginning was the word and the word was with god remember god adam named the creatures the word and the name is the power we give things power by what we say about them and what we say about these things is what we think about them and what we permit ourselves to think and feel about them. And the power therefore is in us. Now to the degree we control what we're going to think and feel or redirect our thinking and feeling more in terms of positive, constructive, and ideal situations that we wish to see eventually.

To that degree are we adepts. To the degree that we permit any immediate word from anybody else, any immediate suggestion, which is a word again, from anybody else any immediate vibration in terms of a condition or situation from anybody or anything else to affect us where we feed it back by hunting for its negative interpretation which we do don't we now to that degree are we lacking in adeptship at handling or mastering that is or controlling the condition in accordance with the higher or the more desired outcome from a higher level now being adept can include being adept at negativity. You see we have an idea that being an adept means that it's all constructive. Haven't you known people who are very adept at being liars, very adept at being thieves, very adept at rationalizing, very adept at keeping themselves from feeling for others, very adept at keeping themselves from living, very adept at keeping themselves locked in the prisons of just one-pointed or fanatical ideas instead of being able to respond to larger pictures. This is adepthood so you get ideas of the evil adepts and the good adepts but isn't that a matter of interpretation it depends on who decides what's good and who decides what's evil if a whole bunch of people decide that it is evil to want want to teach, say, the principles of international harmony because it makes us insecure as a nation.

Do you know how many people are doing that under the name of patriotism, maybe?

Well does that make it really evil or not or is it the opposite in other words people can call a good evil and if we are suggestible we'll receive it people can call an evil good and and if the mind and heart is open to hypnotic suggestion it will receive it people will think they want good but if their minds and hearts remain open to the hypnotic suggestion of negative pain sorrow chest beating horror fear a part may want one thing and another part may want another but you remember what is said in the Bible about a house divided those who watch TV or listen to the radio and there's only one thing we hear or see and that's insanity does Does anyone here wish to disagree to that?

But I'll tell you something.

Approximately 2 thirds here would consider the insanity comes from a group who teaches one or who are slanted in their what they say to one side of the picture. The other third would go the other way not even 50 50 and I'm not going to tell you which is what I will not a true spiritual teacher does not it's up to you to do your growing and recognize it for yourselves the point is we are all exposed continuously to the evil impacts of separatism and we react to it with that extraordinary egomania of I have to be right and they're all you know what. They're wrecking the world. They're wrecking society.

They're wrecking this and they're wrecking that and it is always they last Thursday night's class I mentioned paranoia I upset a lot of people when I pointed out that all of us after all have times when we're paranoically inclined and it's the degree we all have times when we're schizophrenically inclined and there are degrees we all have times when we're so withdrawn that you might almost call us in the schizophrenic catatonic state but there are degrees and it's only and all of us therefore need to feel that we're not so separate from anybody else and we've all of us been exposed to being forced to do somebody else's will furthermore we've all forced somebody else to do our will so we're not so distant from the tyrannies of life though we like to stand up and use and use strong statements as though we are beyond this. Now, the adept, the true adept.

Now, I wonder why you come to this church.

You know why you, I don't wonder. I just say it to make you look into your own hearts. You know why you come.

Because here we do not cater to nonsense.

We love you enough.

We love you enough to help you to look into your own heart. And if you haven't got the strength, you'll go somewhere else where they say you're perfect. And you are.

But you're not perfect as far as having attained the capacity to express it yet. Let's say you're growing towards the ability and capacity to express it.

It's like an embryo is it may be a perfect embryo at whatever stage but it isn't perfect enough to breathe on its own yet and that's what makes the difference and it takes a very strong song sold with true aspiration to be willing to come and hear certain things that relate to the inner and secret thinking and feeling and that hit at one's own self-satisfaction, that hit at the very things that make us think we're spiritual.

Doesn't it now?

And so when you get disturbed, which you inevitably must in the process of growth, the thing I want you to remember is that it takes a very beautifully strong soul, therefore an old soul, and therefore a soul that has developed the capacity for objectivity, therefore to look at portions of itself and say, yes, this part of me is still only 12 years old approximately. This part is acting more like the rebellious 17, 18 year old. This part of me is still acting like two years old and after all who needs that like a hole in the head you know without tearing your hair because when you're tearing your hair then you're acting like the paranoid or schizo and it's unnecessary it's the sense of humor with these ideas but it takes a very old and strong soul to have reached the point where it's willing to come for self transmutation and the rejoicing comes because it's willing to see I am the master of my fate and you know who else is God is the master of our fate but what and who is God God is that eternal center in every one of us. That is why we are one. And that pushes and pushes and presses and pressures us into the growth. That's what evolution is. The The inevitable growth, which helps us to understand the previous thinking, the previous feeling, the previous nonsense, and instead of beating our chest and saying how I am at fault, I was evil, I was guilty, instead of all that nonsense to say I was immature and ye gods, it's time I grow up and I'll work desperately to grow up mainly cause you're so damn tired of being miserable and reaping the horrible and ever more horrible repercussions of the nonsense of immaturity which is evil in its small sense which forces growth but as long as we have to beat our chests to feel important and say it's because I'm evil or I'm helpless you're not helpless you're not one bit helpless when you're tired of being miserable, there's suddenly a well of strength from the infinite everythingness. When you're tired of being miserable, there is something in you that will not dare let go. And when you do let go, it will remember faster and faster. And those who say I cannot help it, they just, they haven't been miserable enough, even though they may claim they've been more miserable than anybody else ever was. I remember when I was 12, I knew that I had already suffered more than any human being that had ever lived on this earth.

I didn't think so I knew it and I knew it with every fiber of my being and then I heard a very intimate friend of my mother's whose name seriously enough came up in my life rather often after that her name was Sadie I heard her say that she had suffered more than any human being on the face of the earth then I heard my mother say that she has suffered more than any human being on the face of the earth then I heard six other people say the same thing now the first two or three times I heard it I looked at these people compassionately and I thought how deluded they are how deluded they think so, but of course it's only true of me. The fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, by this time I started to get worried. And then it hit me with great disturbance. I thought, my God, everybody thinks so. So I went out and started to ask questions. You know me, the eternal researcher. Maybe I'm in a state of arrested development in terms of research, but I love to research in order to bring you the results of it. This is the point. So I started to ask questions.

Every time I saw someone who looked like they thought they were the most miserable people in the earth and you know it shows in the eyes and in the expression or who made some remark because I only I thought why waste time with those who haven't stopped to think about it a lot of people never even think about these generalized things now have they got that amount of ego you know that just those of us who have plenty of ego get to thinking of things in those terms not that there's anything wrong with ego it's rather it's the ego becomes negative if we have it turned in on ourselves or start letting God be the eternal ego working in and through us. It's a matter of its usage. So I started to ask various people who gave indications and I discovered that practically everybody who was super miserable either secretly secretly or very unsecretly and most verbally were quite certain that they suffered more than anybody else.

As I said, although it took me a little while, it was not until the eighth, ninth, tenth, or eleventh person that I sadly realized maybe I wasn't the one who really had suffered the most, maybe only next to the most, but who would it be the most then? I still never could. And to this day, I can't quite believe it.

Well, that's something to help you chuckle. The point is, pain is utterly unbearable to the one who has it.

And what to one people person would seem like not so much pain when we look at somebody else's it's really more like well it's pretty easy to bear up under somebody else's hurt. It's easier to be noble and spiritual when it's somebody else that hurts. Not that it mightn't hurt you, you might be soft, compassionate, loving. It might hurt you very deeply and excruciatingly indeed, but it's easier to bear up under somebody else's hurt. And so we have a way of thinking that our hurt is the worst, that we have suffered the most, that our physical agony has been the most. We have a way. And those who suffered the most intensely usually feel there has to be be the most and yet it ain't necessarily so it isn't necessarily so it may be that the focus is just so centered hypnotically centered that these people amongst us that includes us are not permitting the healing energies to take over that are there, waiting, even trying. We hang on to a negative. We hang on to, we beat our brains, we beat our emotions with a mental, an emotional, or a physical, or a combination of all three. We beat and and deepen and deepen the currents of these ideas in ourselves.

And even with our aspiration, we keep using pain as the reason instead of what should be a much better reason than pain for trying and wanting to attain to the infinite joy, joy, to the infinite love, to the infinite freedom, to the infinite health, and the infinite good. And what should that be? To become adept, to become an adept at recognizing the negative thought, recognizing the negative emotion, recognizing the hypnotic suggestion instantly and saying uh-uh out. Hence, hence, get going, away. I have no truck with you. I will not feed you with my blood. I will not feed you with my soul. I will not feed you with the currents of my vital body. I will not feed you with my spirit. I have better things to to do in my father's house and in this realm of glory.

I will search for beauty and not for ugliness. I won't let my eyes rove around to see what's hurt.

Things hurt in evolution under any condition.

I'll search for the thing that one takes for allergy. If you have an allergy you have histamines that are growing developing in your system so you take anti histamine I will make my consciousness an anti histamine as far as I'm able and that's when we start getting help from everything and everybody now an adept then is one who recognizes immediately the negatives that come in the words, that come in the thoughts, that come in the emotions from oneself or others, and stops it cold from influencing.

One who sees what's going to damage a relationship and stops it cold. One who sees what's going to to affect the atmosphere for oneself, one's children, one's family, and stops at cold, and reaches to something higher to replace that thought, that emotion, that energy. Nobody else is going to do it for us, but the whole influx of the universal good will come in and help us if we open the cup for it. So it isn't that we have to do all of it for ourselves because we don't have to. What we do have to do though is to work at keeping that cup open and that's where the meditation with the tarot helps so profoundly and with all of the exercises we give you here in BOTA. Both the work you get at home and the work we do together in temple, in all phases of the work. Prineus, classes, Sunday services, of course the chapter, there aren't too many, we have very few, that takes special temperaments, which a few of you have, and those who don't, as time goes on, we watch you and always hope you will. But what is it then that is involved there. It's this. Telepathically we always attune ourselves or become attuned with that which is in harmony with our own focus of attention. I will repeat that. Telepathically we always attune ourselves and become attuned to to. That which we are in harmony with in terms of what we give attention to. Do you realize what that means? What are you paying attention to? What are you paying attention to? That's what you are attuning yourself to. That's the idea of your area of control. The rest is done by all the adepts and angels and archangels and gods and the forces of the universe and the infinite love. Wherever we put our attention, all All the forces of infinite love flow forth and concentrate it.

To the degree we have power to concentrate, to that degree does the love of the universe come in and bring us the force of our attention. You say pain? Why not?

It's not where we're focusing our power.

Consciousness.

Attention.

Who brings us anything there's only one being in all the universe and that is god you are a cell an aspect of the one life you are evolving from a two-year-old to a five-year-old to a 10 year old, to an 18 year old, a 21 year old, and to a ripe 30, and we never get older than 30 beauty wise.

The height.

But wisdom wise, infinite and unending. Knowledge wise, infinite and unending. So remember, what we put our concentrated attention to, this brings to us and all of us, just like the sun shines on the so-called just and the so-called unjust.

God pours to all. The power of the universe pours to all. What we put our attention to, what we keep our attention upon. This is what is fed, and you and I, all of us, as a center of the consciousness of God, attune ourselves to the adepts in that area or level. Criminally inclined, put your attentions there and all the adepts of crime are one with us and we with them.

And there are adepts in crime. And the repercussions there are. Escapists, put your attention on escapism. All the adepts of escapism and methods of escapism will become one with us and we with them. And this is the riches of life.

And does it mean God is evil? No, we are growing and have to learn how to use our infinite powers. This is what it amounts to. Put our consciousness on love, all the love of the universe will shower us, so we'll wonder how we can get away from a little bit of it. Have you ever thought maybe it might be a good idea?

Not really no one wants to get away from love all we might ever want to do is get away from somebody's idea that they're loving when all they want to do is grab and entrap by entrap I mean in prison it's like grabbing a moth or a butterfly you know saying I love you and walking it away you know that's not love killing it off in the name of love that's the thing naturally we don't or shouldn't welcome and we should watch ourselves to make sure we don't inflict this on others because we do things in the name of love that this is not love these are the growing things the attuning !

Levels of we are one with God, God is one with us. We are controlling the higher levels of our thinking and feeling. No matter what is happening in our everyday life, remember, no matter what is happening in our everyday life, no matter what has happened in our past, this has to do with where consciousness has been focused. It has nothing to do with what can happen tomorrow or one moment from now with change of focus. Everything changes every fraction of every second throughout all of eternity, which is not time but foreverness. It has nothing to do with time. It changes it doesn't matter how many disappointments we've had it doesn't matter how much sickness it doesn't matter how much sorrow it doesn't matter how much anything negatively if that was in the past it's from focus on those levels of consciousness it is attunement to the adepts of that level which is means the evil levels or the immature levels and it is true of the nicest people call others SOBs and what do you think is you're really doing you're attracting SOBs you deserve them and one who loves you wants you to have them so you'll yes so that you'll discover how to use your powers properly does it mean everybody is going to be beautiful no because in a life of growth you meet the test the vessel bees but you also attract the beauties that lift your heart and soul and you discover that so what you have two-year-olds and they annoy you their problems okay but in an infinite growing evolution so what this is being an adept you're gonna beat your chest you're gonna make yourself get sick so that you keep the physical body a lesser period every year you lose of holding the physical body here after gaining this wisdom kind of a waste you're gonna have to redo it that much more often later why waste this time you are in a gorgeous position you have the ability to learn how to focus your attention on the spiritual levels of adeptship through these tarot keys through the work we do here through my love for you do you know I don't know how to keep my consciousness on anything negative anymore you know why I don't dare I mean no credit to me people say how can you be so strong I'm not strong really I just don't dare because the older you get spiritually the more instantly a repercussion now if the minute I hold a negative thought about something it comes boomerang back at me and from every direction I mean what it wouldn't it become a stupidity that's all it amounts to okay and this is what occurs. Now you have reached the point where it keeps coming back at you more and more rapidly, and you know it, don't you? Where you had to wait for the repercussions, where you thought you're getting away with things, you're not getting away with it so much anymore. And isn't that wonderful? Your own higher soul is forcing you to become more positive. Say, thank you God. And even when you can't feel positive refuse to think negative you see that so that it has to wear itself out just hanging on to a picture and that's a tarot key and then the healing forces come in the angels the Archangel just because you're not holding them away by feeding the nonsense I could talk to you for ten hours on this. 110. But we have to have a short healing service at least. Oh, and here it says, remember collection. Which I always forget, as you know.
