This evening we're taking up the tenth Sephirah. And remember, Sephirah means emanation of the Most High. How about planting it a little so I can sort of glance at it too? It isn't that I don't know it inside out and upside down, but the subconsciousness can respond better without conscious thought.

Well, not that much. I want them all to see it clearly there.

There. Anybody there cannot see this clearly? Scream out please loud and clear. Loud and clear. And actually this is not the last of this particular class series. You see next Thursday as you know we're having the Christmas midnight ritual which will be announced to you then the following Thursday we're going to be really hooping it up in the temple sounds unspiritual but I think you'll find it spiritual enough in the way the Qabalists believe in spirituality and then the following Thursday I will be weaving in the ends of the full tree for you you won't find it in the program but those are parts of the class will be here and you'll get the goodies that help to give some of the lesser-known perceptions, especially at that time we'll be taking up something that I very rarely speak about, and when I do I don't speak very much about it, and that is what is known in Qabalah as the Klippith.

The Klippith deals with the unbalanced force that is quite an inevitable result of the emanations from one expression to another you have these leftover energies which become quite destructive until they are transmuted. And this is part of the job that all evolving aspects of the one life have, to take these unbalanced forces and use them for evolution, to get them folded in and expressing.

In other words, that's that excess energy we can capture and bring into the service of the light. But it takes a lot of know-how, and naturally we can't get the full know-how in a class like this. But we start getting the beginnings, and it happens to deal with the ability to learn how to do something about the unbalanced energies within our own makeup and I'm sure we'll all agree that we all have them in some form or another this is called the Klippas and it involves many other parts of evolution both cosmically and personally so we will be dealing with that in the folding up series of this class but that will be three weeks from now and then the following week we will be starting the new course that deals with that terrible terrible subject we will scare a lot of people I'm sure and inspire true aspirants this without question but our program will tell you about these things and our beloved ann ryan will give you the announcements on it but tonight then we're going to be speaking about malthus the very bottom part of the tree that Sephirah which has that multicolored aspect.

As you can see, the lowest Sephirah sits or stands by itself. It is the end result of all the activities that are involved with the interrelationships that have been brought down plane by plane, vibratory level by vibratory level, until finally they have reached that which we spoke about last week the receptacle yes it actually we can also think of it as the astral plane the subconscious mind that's something that we love to think we understand just because we have a name for it and as if you will recall I I pointed out to you last Thursday night that the subconscious mind in itself or the astral plane or yesid, this is really the foundation for all else that follows on the physical plane. It is that which receives all of the patterns, all of the forces above the tree. That's that violet, Sephirah, yesid, the foundation, astral plane, the reproductive organs of the grand man.

Actually then, it holds the creative pattern which will project once you have a pattern formed And our thinking, our feeling, the will of God, the intention of the universe All of these are involved in the formation of the patterns Because so much of these patterns, in fact most of them, are subconscious conscious, they are on the whole not available to the conscious mind of humanity until humanity has reached a stage of evolution where he and or she is able to look upon its own emotional life and watch the hidden motivations, watch the things that we have thought and felt, watch the reactions and the results. In other words, we don't even remotely become aware of the patterns which are responsible for our physical experience, or that which we at the moment will call physical. You'll see that isn't quite as physical as it looks. But the thing that that we must understand at all times if we're going to truly attain the powers and the controls, if we're going to attain to the higher consciousness, if we're going to actually attain to the pinnacles of evolution, what we must understand is that it is because of the pattern of which we are not consciously aware but which we ourselves have built not built in the way that most people think you know we'll look at individuals who are immature who have certain parts of their makeup a little bit lacking in this or that area of development and we will just love to say hmm you can see why this person and that person is in this or that very unhappy situation makes us feel real good and very superior. The point is what we need to do instead of hunting for the other person's reason for their problem is to look into our own. And of course people don't like to do this, you know. It's because they don't like to do this that they run hither scissoring yon to the illusionary and delusionary schools of thought which tell them that they're going to attain liberation in six easy lessons and they will keep hunting for their six easy lessons and more miserable a life is hard to find than the individuals who are still attempting to escape to walk away from, to run away from their own self-disciplined training. To become aware of what your patterns are within your own inner being really means that you have reached a point in your evolution, the age of your particular soul, or that spark of God which has developed to a particular point. To be able to see into your own motivation, to be able to see your own patterns working, whether negatively or positively, requires the development of a very attentive self-conscious mind. This does not come easily. Every single one of you, by the very fact that you are aspirants, have without question gone through incarnation after incarnation after incarnation of being immersed in guess Guess what? Malchus, the sefirah we're talking about tonight, which is the proving out ground, the end result, the manifestation of the patterns that are within your inner subconscious being.

Now remember, these patterns within the subconscious part of our mind, these are not separate from any other part of consciousness in reality. It isn't any more separate than the separation of the room in your house when you are watching a tv movie or play and when your consciousness is concentrated down and immersed in a particular movie you will be unaware of your room the color of your room the ceiling the floors various parts of the furniture, though you know them in your total being, you will be unaware at the moment. Isn't this true? You get lost in a story. Now being lost in a story doesn't mean you're lost so. It means that you're concentrated down on a particular area of experience with your mind, with your consciousness. And actually this concentrating down on an area of experience experience has to do with the fact that through untold eons of time a spark of divinity the white circle there called the crown that's also called fetter it's called the one the indivisible but a spark of that one the indivisible has been emanating itself in and through all these various aspects of its own being in order to grow itself an expression of its own selfhood. Pretty much like you worked at growing a plant or a cake or a dress that you're sewing or a house or whatever it is that you like to build or do. It's a creative act that has to do with your own selfhood.

But the thing that we must bear in mind is that the end result, that is the expression on the physical plane, or what we call the physical plane, is really the experience of the self. The experience of the self that deals with whatever pattern and interpretation and relationships it has had within a certain cycle like a reincarnation or perhaps a group of reincarnation so that everything on the physical plane according to qabalistic teaching and this This, incidentally, is an agreement with our Eastern brethren. Everything on the physical plane is something we have built ourselves.

Now, if we are unhappy, and I imagine we all are in some way or other, about something or other, what we usually like to do is to look to our wives or our husbands, to our lovers, or our friends, or our parents, or our children, or our relatives, employers, employees and we like to say that is what's made me unhappy that is what's frustrating me that is the reason I like to wring its neck well I sympathize with you I often like to wring its neck too we react from the moment on the physical plane because all of us forget because we're concentrated in the story haven't you reacted when you look at a movie or a TV or you're lost in a book to that thing as though it were real and yet it's only that momentary reaction I mean this is understandable it's acceptable and what we must do is really learn to accept it in its true essence to see what it is so that we don't hang on to this illusion delusion. Well this is part of the thing that makes for our misinterpretations of life. The fact that we don't realize that being lost in a temporary sphere or expression, we don't realize that this is merely a working out of the pattern that we ourselves have built. Now the thing I want you to bear in mind though is that when I say we ourselves have built this every one of us who call ourselves an eye are after all the eye of the white circle the crown the one the indivisible ahea and down when we get down to what we call malkus actually pronounced malkus the manifestation really it's the flower of the tree this is the blossom it is reaping the rewards of our powers our powers being the divine powers now you'll say what kind of reward is this I'm reaping I hurt here and I ache there and I'm frustrated in the other place and I'm in agony in another way and I'm losing faith in God and this is this a reward oh I have news for you yes it is a reward how else does discrimination develop if you're learning how to paint when you get a warp product you're going to say uh-huh I've got to change my technique in at least this or that stroke or color or use of colors.

Wouldn't you say? If you're learning how to cook.

Ye gods, of course, other people suffer more than we do.

I know I always tested it out on my husband first.

I'd never cooked before. Was I going to take the chance?

I very joyously let him find out first.

And if he thought that he was going to survive why then I would try it I don't know if you believe this or not but it sounds good doesn't it we have to have chuckles when we're working with the transmutation of our insides you realize this and I will find every way possible to give us the chuckle it releases attention and then we're able to look more readily into that which has been so painful. And as one of us said to me recently, and I think it's most reprehensible of her incidences, she said to me, I've seen you put on all kinds of personalities in flashes, or lightning flashes, for whatever the situation required. Well this is part of what we all can do, some of us a little better than others and we must do we have to become masters of our expression and if a certain expression will serve a purpose that we feel is benevolent then we have to test it out now sometimes we may think something is benevolent incidentally that somebody else is going to think is quite demoniacal you know a paranoid is going to be feeling very benevolent and messianic and say, I am an arm of God and I'm going to kill this evil creature and stop its breathing in order to save the world.

Now this paranoid will be acting from a most glorious motive, only you know the victim and the relatives of the victim aren't going to agree. Here you have two different points of view. Isn't that right? Two different points of view. And actually, I give you these extremes in order to show you that the same thing happens in other ways with us. Whatever we want desperately at the moment, we build the most glorious images around this want, this need. We want to be immersed in the illusions of yesod the violet circle which is the pattern receiver it receives everything from the above but of course fortunately it not only receives the patterns of our own developed or immature state it also receives the pattern of what it is we are destined to be and so we continuously concentrate a group of energies of universal energies because we are each a consciousness of the divine and we warp and build very foolish looking sand castles that the tides will wash away. We paint the most horrible kinds of pictures that we think are beautiful. We sing songs off-key because we love music. We just make everybody else suffer like you know what, especially those who have a good ear for music. We do all these things without realizing that what we are doing is learning how to control and hold the substance of the Most High in a particular area of expression and that area of expression is our physical body and our physical environment, mahu we have all been doing it now all these pains these heartaches these sorrows that we have. Actually, we have them mainly because we are interpreting them from a limited point of view. They're inevitable in the process of growth. Now there are those who decide, I'm through with pain, I'm going to God, and I'm just leaving all this illusion, delusion, and snare. Well, these individuals, incidentally, who think of it in this manner and say, I was one of them, you know.

That's why I understand it so well.

And I'm glad I was.

Otherwise, how could I understand it? You see the wonderfulness of having been immature?

You notice I mention it as having been. If I still was, I wouldn't admit it at the moment anyway. Way but to realize to know to understand that only as we bring into complete manifestation the perfect beauty and glory of the most high that only then are we fulfilling our destiny to me to know this to realize it and to want it come hell or high water this is the essence of the highest aspiration those who say I want to get to god and get away from this pain are indulging in escapism I tried it fortunately very young I don't know I don't dare tell you how long ago because then you might guess my age and you know I'm not more than 21 22 oh no already ready? No. But please try to understand that there isn't a single thing that we experience on the physical plane that isn't the flower, and I repeat the flower, of this tree that we are.

It is the privilege we have to experience our testings, that is, our groping, our working. We are becoming artists. We are becoming musicians of life, mind you. Every part of the expression is an expression of life. We have all done the most horrible things on the face of the earth. Not necessarily in this incarnation but we've done it sometimes we have done it in this one to recapitulate in order to get ourselves stirred and intensified for higher growth but we could not remotely keep pushing towards aspiration unless we had the privilege of reaping the repercussions of our weakness illusions delusions, misinterpretations, immaturities which would involve selfishness, hatred, jealousies, all of the qualities that are thought of as being immature or evil. Now evil is a relative thing. Keep this in mind. Evil there is. In other words if I in some vast incarnation way back was indulging with my particular social group in cannibalism God I hope I didn't but I'm sure I must have because I'm sure we've all done everything. But if I was indulging in cannibalism, umpteen incarnations back with my social group, because this was considered the proper thing to do. Now many incarnations later, suppose I still had clung to that past pattern. Suppose from that past conditioning I still had a feeling that although it was subconscious that I hadn't dissolved this pattern of that time that cannibalism is the way to say you might say get the courage and the intelligence of your enemy and absorb it into you because you know cannibalism involves this kind of idea most of the time. And suppose then I decided in order to become greater and vaster and more spiritual what I needed to do was secretly murder a few of you and cannibalize and absorb your essence. Now do you see the difference of the attitude as a cannibal say umpteen incarnations ago and today, especially in this society. The point is we, you think what has this got to do with us now? Oh, everything. We are still reacting, wherever we have these problem areas, to our patterns of yesterday. We have not been willing to release misinterpretations, illusions and delusions of yesterday when we were infants. And so we cling to patterns, and remember what I said, the patterns in Yesod are what determine the expression in Malkuth, that is, your body and your physical environment. Now I hope that you are not immediately, some of you I know are, rushing to somebody and say, ah that's what she's done, that's what he's done. Don't do that. Always look into your own heart and as I pointed out to you, very few people are willing to. They'd rather say, hmm this is too uncomfortable. No, there are six easy lessons. You You get to God by letting this mahatma get you there.

And I think it's a good idea to try it, if you think that's possible, but you'll find out it isn't so, so unfortunately sometimes it takes many incarnations.

The point is we have to accept whatever it is we have on the physical plane at this moment and in this time and through this incarnation not as something that something else has done to us or someone else or a group of someone else's but to see it as part of a growth process not as a fact that we have been bad or evil and are being punished because if you do this by god I can assure you you're going to be out to punish other people you are and this will be an excuse for sadistic vengeance this is exactly this is what we will do from the pattern we the pattern works itself into an expression and so we will unconsciously from a subconscious level make sure that somebody else is miserable usually the ones closest to us incidentally tough thing to take, isn't it? But we do it, and then other people do it to us. Now when we become aware of other people doing it to us, I think we should become discriminating enough to stop it.

And of course in Mahu, and in that area only, can we have the discrimination to stop it. All of evolution that is every pattern that exists must become formed around a special electromagnetic force which attracts to itself the substance of God which we call Bina and if you think Bina, Ima the feminine aspect of God isn't God I mean, boy, you sure are not going to like our next course because we're going to show you both aspects, masculine and feminine, and the vital importance of both, and that one couldn't be without the other. But the point I am trying to make for tonight is that in the manifestation you have the feminine principle working. Bina I'm a that a black circle and black doesn't mean bad or evil it really means mysterious not understood unknown now won't you boys agree that us girls are mysterious serious only because the two sides of the tree have a different way of responding a different way of responding to an experience and each is just as vital just as important just as divine just as glorious although of course we have the tendency to say oh you know this is un-evolved you know that glorious of those glorious songs and my fair lady you know why can't a woman be like a man don't you think delightful. Wouldn't it be horrible? It's a delightful song though. It gets a very vital point across of course. And vice versa. I'm sure women want to know just why can't a man be like a woman? Well I tell you they are. What kind of excitement and glory and growth and beauty and interrelationship would there be?

See. Impossible. Manifestation on the physical plane has to do with the kind of patterns we formed as they respond to our interpretations of life and experience within a given cycle.

And so when we say whatever it is we are experiencing look to ourselves we're not saying beat yourself on the head or on the heart and say oh I am a sinner if you do that I'm gonna throw you out you better do it behind my back we manifest our interpretation of the moment we can can have a glorious development in a vast portion of our being and yet in another certain portion we can be deluded we can be full of illusions and be misinterpreting like mad especially when we're personally involved and so naturally that's where we keep throwing the power of khefet the one the indivisible and it goes all through the areas of the rest of the tree the powers of the one, the divine, which we are in miniature, and they reflect back, and we have the fruit, the flower. And when we look at the fruit, we say, ye gods, this is bitter, or this is sour.

We don't like this kind of fruit, so we start changing for the kind of fruit, for that particular tree, just like a horticulturalist. You know, they keep experimenting back and forth. That's what we're doing. We're experimenting. Only we don't realize that we get lost in the nonsense.

Now then, what is manifestation as such? If you want to attain to the highest, you're going to have to drop whatever nonsense you've accepted from wherever. The idea that matter or the physical universe is unspiritual and that what you want to do is get the hell out of it in order to get to God.

Now, I'll repeat it in another way.

If you want to attain to the highest, you will have to accept the only way there is to do it.

You will have to accept it not try to escape from it you will have to be able to say to yourself the physical universe the physical condition the physical expression is a reflection of God in this area of its unfoldment in and through me. And there is no evolution, even remotely possible, even remotely possible, that tries to run away from what we call the physical. What is the physical you know what our physicists tell us they've lost it isn't that wonderful they've discovered something although most of them don't know what they've discovered they say a physical thing when we look at it with our instruments we discover it is a certain structural form being held. We don't know why or how, but there are atoms being held within a concentrated area and that's what we call a physical thing.

What's an atom? Our physicists are very honest with us. They say we don't know what an atom is. It's a theory. It's a mathematical formula. All we know is that when we think of this theory or mathematical formula, and when we work with certain experiments, we discover effects like a line of light photographed because we've bombarded certain this's with certain that's, showing that there are effects but no scientist has ever seen an atom. No scientist has ever seen an electron which is like a planet whirling around a central Sun. I mean this is just an analogy it isn't exactly that way at all. No scientist has ever seen of the various types of nucleus of an atom and what are they? A positive and negative type of force. The nucleus being a group of positive elements along with what they call some neutrals, sort of put in there maybe to hold them stable, with electrons whirling around and electrons are what? They don't know what it is.

They've given something a name, just like we say, oh that's only subconsciousness. And what are you talking about? Do you know what subconsciousness is? You know, we mustn't get ourselves lost in nonsense because we give a thing a word or a name we mustn't think that we understand it the point is physical matter or the physical world has dissolved as far as our scientists are concerned physicists who study it into electromagnetic pressures that are held together for some strange reason which they do not understand by a special electromagnetic interchange and this electromagnetic interchange holds some kind of strange substance which they don't know about can't even see and it becomes a concentration that's what your physical body is that's what your physical universe is. It is a concentration of consciousness. I repeat, of consciousness.

So that your physical environment and mind, our physical universe, is a concentration of consciousness. If you remember that aheya, the white circle, the one, the indivisible, is the primal will the beginning of the whirling Qabalah calls it and that Mahu is the fruit of this tree the final result of all these interchanges of energy you will start to see perhaps that matter or the physical universe is one side of a coin it is not different it is not separate from what we choose to call spirit which is the other other side of the coin perhaps we can put it this way we'll put it in many ways consciousness actually involves that which we call spirit or the primary I as being able to condense itself or concentrate itself in order to become aware of itself as a self-conscious creative aspect of its own being and it cannot do it unless this concentration takes form now the form when I touch you and you touch me me. You are touching spirit. This is the thing you've got to realize. You are not touching something that is an opposite from spirit or something you have to get away from in order to reach God. When I touch you and you touch me, we are both touching a concentrated aspects of deity. Now those who say the physical universe is illusion, delusion, and snare, these are the people who are trying to retire. I don't know, I'm one who tried. Luckily I wasn't successful. These are the ones who try to retire from the discipline of the concentrated expression of the fruit of the tree or the pattern the immature patterns that are inevitable when we're growing and learning how they're trying to retire back to the womb you have your irresponsible in many areas in the psychological field you'd be amazed how many of them have in essence said to themselves who the devil and devil is a good word wants to evolve I'm going back to the primordial ecstasy and you know what the primordial ecstasy is not giving a damn about anything else because you're just ecstasy and allness and there's nothing else to be aware of. Individualized awarenesses go through the discipline of the concentration of patterns which we experience as our bodies and our environment and the interrelationship with others. Therefore if you want to attain cosmic consciousness as a center of active cooperation with the Most High you have to start looking at the physical universe as a glorious reflection of deity reflection of deity in the process of growth if you want to just retire from all responsibility and all evolution by all means just go ahead and say all I want is the absolute to hell with everything else this is illusion delusion and snare you know you might make it though I doubt it I think your higher soul will say I've gone through this many eons and eons and eons building this level or area of expression I'm not going to have that oh no it just will bring more problems which will be fine beautiful glorious because then you will be driven definitely driven to start looking a second and third and fourth and thousandth time the physical universe and that means your physical body and and your physical environment and your relationship are the result of your interpretation of life the pattern in Yesod you see there's nothing else Mahus stands in a way like by itself as the end product but I want to tell you something about that. Think of the sky. Think about the sky in this way. If we...

Did you know that if we didn't have dust particles scattered all through the sky the sky would be black? Did you know that? Some of you didn't. The sky would be black unless you had dust particles scattered all through from where you are. Why? Because that which makes the sky blue is because the light from Ketheth, the one, the indivisible, is reflected from the dust particles, and so you experience blue. If you didn't have dust particles you couldn't experience your body if you didn't have dust particles you couldn't see one body as against another the dust particles are the reflective surfaces and it is therefore by reflection that Mahu expresses the one, the indivisible by reflection That's incidentally us in terms of our bodies and our environment. Everything that happens to us is a reflection of the light of our consciousness and it is to us or should be an index of what we have to do next. For instance are we being miserable because of a certain relationship? Usually one of two reasons either we have been indiscriminate in our choice of a relationship because we're either masochists or sadists or both that sounds tough but it's true we've been indiscriminate in our choice of a relationship or we have chosen the relationship each and both together that's going to have enough hell breaking loose so that we're going to be forced to look into what's wrong and both rise on the wings of realization if both are aspirants otherwise one or the other is going to get into more trouble which is beautiful, this is the divine love you remember in the Bible the Lord loveth whom he chasteneth or the Lord chasteneth whom he loveth now the point is when we accelerate our growth because of aspiration we certainly are going to bring a more rapid manifestation of problems but if we are really centered on bringing deity into Mahus instead of trying to escape we are going to learn fast we're going to develop discrimination we're going to grow we're going to develop the ability to love, to be fulfilled, to fulfill life, because we're going to be centers of the fulfillment for the Most High, which we have to be. You know, I want to tell you something. You've gone beyond that path of no return. You know, you've heard of that? You go from here to Hawaii, you go past a certain center if you have trouble you can't turn back you have to go forward and take a chance and those of us who become aspirants we've gone past that point of no return we can't return back to the primordial ecstasy of not being a completed individualized I we have to determine to take the physical expression and to bring God into man. This is your destiny. You're not going to get out of it, incidentally. Nothing more. You might have at one time and just returned and merged yourselves back into that shining sea, but you're going to have to go on.

Now is it bad?

Heaven no this is glorious because if you see Mahu for what it is you can transmute every single pain and agony and you can do it rapidly it depends on how intense you are in your aspiration and desire why? Because remember Mahu reflects reflect the Most High and to the degree that you are willing to discover how to reflect that Most High in your body, in your environment, in your home, in your relationship.

To that degree are you going to have the experiences which will bring you discrimination and fulfillment. Mahus is the flower of the tree. There are those who say we have to get to God.

This is true, but more true is that we have to bring God to man and then man expresses God and help to evolve the rest of man. We cannot at this point anymore say that I'm going to get as far as I can and you know to hell with the rest of them except ye all remain in the ship ye shall none come to land you have to have that spirit in you what happens is in the hands of the Most High but you have to have that spirit if you are going to pick on those near and dear to and say they are at fault, you're going to be missing the boat completely.

They may be very undeveloped in some areas. The point is we have to start seeing what a glorious ecstasy and privilege it is to have reached a point where we can be alive and aware in Moses. We have to start seeing our physical vehicle as being the expression of God.

Bina, on the tree of life, the divine mother, is said to be the dark, sterile, dark, sterile force until the masculine force impregnates her as Chosme, the gray one across through the path of love or Venus and she is the principle of manifestation and remember without manifestation you cannot have evolution or the reflection of the Most High with all its myriad expressions but she is dark and sterile except the masculine force projects the glory and the beauty and the light the seed of the universal divine will received from the one present which is the primal will in mahout in my I will be giving you incidentally uh some interpretations of that markfully sunday on the qabalistic interpretation of christmas sounds like a strange thing and that because mahout has many names qabalah uses this message you know to show interrelationship she is called the bride of the king and the king is Tiphareth the Christ self Mahu is called Eve the mother of all Bina is the superior mother but she's dark and sterile until she is given the impregnation by the masculine force in Mahus on the physical plane she is called the virgin she's called the bride she's called the inferior mother she's called the kingdom now I will explain all this more fully in our Christmas interpretation interpretation because it has to do with the birth of the Christ of course but here in a class let's try to see this that the king beauty Tiphareth is that which ensouls and brings life to that is brings the expression into the physical plane and the feminine principle that we call the Malthus principle, though the feminine principle also has other areas of expression.

But in terms of Malthus, the queen, what we have is bringing into form that which has been created. Now, it is only when you bring into form that you can begin to know what your patterns of thinking and feeling have done. Isn't that right? Always so. Therefore all expressions of form are the expressions of what has come from the essence and therefore all the forces of the Kri above. And all your problems and joys, all your fulfillment as well as your frustrations are part of the creative building your consciousness has been doing do not make the mistake of blaming any other human being for anything do not make the mistake of blaming them in this way that you can say to yourself this or that person has been destroying or injuring you.

Because when you understand the manifestation of God as being part of yourself and all others, you will know that nobody could even remotely destroy you and that if you think somebody else is responsible for destroying you, all you've really done is transfer your lack of discrimination to another person you see this now if I pick a say this for a lover god forbid wouldn't it be awful let's think of that for a moment whether we're males or females now just think what would I have been showing I would have been showing that subconsciously I want somebody to sort of bruise me. Maybe I have a guilt complex.

Maybe I'm unconsciously copying a pattern of my mother or father because I haven't developed enough awareness to start building more individualistic patterns. Can you see this idea? It's very important. We take our images from our immediate relationship, inevitably, because we're all one being, and without realizing it on the subconscious level, we express it. We pick people who will make us miserable, because subconsciously, subconsciously, we have accepted an image or a masochistic interpretation or we've decided it's more dramatically a hero or heroine to be miserable well I tell you people close to me I watch them like a hawk and when the radio comes on some of these songs oh I have lost you oh I have lost you have you noticed the expressions of exaltation? Isn't that beautiful? It's so beautiful.

Have you said that to yourself? When a song of sadness comes on the air to the radio or TV, isn't that beautiful? You know, I have lost him, I have lost her, but I'll never forget you. Or if if you want to be noble you're going to say I wish you love you know I've lost you but I wish you love you think oh God I feel so spiritual and you go have you noticed how you go into that miserable that image of sorrow thinking that it's so beautiful honeys that's the image you're putting right into the essence that has to come into mothers it's like a child being given exercises and then the teacher has to see how well the exercises have been done we have to stop thinking that morbidity that sorrow that unhappiness are indications of spirituality spirituality, we have to stop saying, bring my karma upon me. All you're saying is make me miserable. You know that. You know you haven't got glorious karma. You have. You're willing to accept it. And what you think and feel today makes you mahu. The physical being is the reflection of the evolutionary level and point of discrimination and understanding that we are at the moment.

No matter how miserably we use it, incidentally.

Bear this in mind. All it means is that we're maybe just a three-month-old embryo in our Divine Mother's womb instead of an eight- or nine-month-old embryo ready to get born.

But still, if you come here, I always figure, here you have reached a point where you're going to help the soul of the planet you are a part of the planetary soul here this is marcus too you are part of it this planetary soul is actually the sum total of our mental emotional nature all of us without exception this is what the planetary soul is and only as we can charge this planetary soul with the more positive intelligent discriminating influences only so will we be doing our part for the total evolution of our fellow man and of course that means we've been doing it for ourselves when you are willing to stop being miserable are you really ask yourselves this question are you willing to stop being miserable you think you are don't you ask it you're going to discover there are areas in you that think it's more melodramatic to stay miserable well look you have no right to do it and I'm going going to raise hell because I'm kind of tired of this misery that everybody has to emanate in order to raise a dramatic situation to feel vital and important it's uh it is your responsibility to the lord of the universe it is your responsibility to your fellow man it is your responsibility to every close relationship you've got to make up your mind that as a center of the most high you're going to stop feeding all this hysterical, illusionary, delusionary nonsense of hanging on to guilt that referred to yesterday to make sure you're being miserably suffered you're miserably suffering for it to stop feeling that you are the culprit of the persecutions of all these evil beings no doubt you've been but so what when you stop wanting these things because of being so nonsensically tied to false interpretations of the power of consciousness only then will you be doing your part about reaching true cosmic consciousness and evolving the consciousness of your fellow man which always means your own naturally it's when you do it for yourself but you do it for all who come within your sphere of influence and to the degree you do it to that degree would you do it for all who come within your sphere of influence and I say damn it remember nice spiritual words it's time to stop hanging on to and reaching for the pains of yesterday we've all had them let's realize they've been a privilege because they have been giving us discrimination evolving a center of consciousness giving us an ability to have sympathy for the pain of another.

But let's stop hanging on to this negative nonsense and start becoming a center of light reflecting the pure ether into mothers.

This is true evolution.

You bring God into man, then man returns.

By man, remember, generic man.

Then man returns to God, not because man has ever been away, but wakes up to the significance of it.

That's the true spirit of evolution.

And any other method you try, if you want to go out and find easier ways than self-transmutation of your own inner immature nonsense, well, try it, my darling.

But God help you and the rest of us because it wastes, it wastes such glorious power.

Let's make up our minds together that we will look upon the physical universe as one of the greatest miracles because this is the reflection of the Most High. Let's make up our minds that we will look upon our bodies as being a unique individualized glory reflecting the Most High because this is what it is.

It is an electromagnetic pattern that holds our consciousness in an individualized manner because we have achieved that much evolution. We've gone through that much hell. But look, darling, you need hell only so long then you need it like a hole in the head once you have your full individualization and if it still comes it only means that you have to start learning how to hold the patterns properly let's make up our minds to walk upon earth knowing that this is the footstool of God and we are walking in the heavens because where do you think earth is? Is it outside of the sky?

See yourself as being a member of the heavens which you are and stop accepting any kind of influence of your own old thinking or feeling or others learn how to become attentively aware and make Malkuth the full glory that it is but that you have to become within your smaller Malkuth of the bigger Malkuth and this is your destiny to me as I said you've gone beyond the point of no return let's start really making up our minds with intensity of heart and soul and mind and body that no matter what happens we're going to start hammering the pattern of fulfillment in God of God for God expressing it in and through each other okay all right we'll now have an intermission Yeah, if you want, in just a second.

Remember with our New Year's party, I wasn't able to hear what was going on, but it is open only to those who come to our Thursday classes, Sunday morning or Monday afternoon, and or their husbands and or a friend, if you want an escort, who is sympathetic to metaphysics.

And I don't know what will happen, I'm sure it'll be quite...

Perhaps something we won't want to publicize except amongst ourselves, because we have our own idea of spirituality which isn't usually shared by those who have narrow prejudiced ideas as to what a true aspiration consists of.

Now we will take care of the questions.

Question number one. What is the significance of the difference between the colors assigned to the spheres on the Tree of Life and the colors given to the seven chakras?

The seven chakras are involved with what we call the planetary aspects of our being.

If you will think of ourselves as being a miniature aspect of the solar system, you You might say that the sun, as such, exists within us as something like the reflection of a drop that reflects the whole solar system, and the sun is that part of the miniature which we are, the microcosm. Each of the seven centers has to do with the seven original holy planets. They have their colors they have their tones and they relate to the evolution of our entire personality uh as controlled and directed by our higher self or individual individuality now uh these planetary centers are not the same thing as the colors of the uh tree of life though they are interrelated, you have on the tree of life, you have your spheres of activity that deal with the cosmos and our relationship with the cosmos. In the seven chakras you have our very concentrated reflection of our particular area of the universe, which is our our own solar system. And this is the difference. I can't go into the full explanation I've given, one or two courses on it, I think something like seven years ago, and perhaps it will be time to give more. I may bring this in and give you these explanations and techniques during the next course when we deal with the polarities of the sexes which involve the the chakras. It will depend on how I see you react, or just what happens to the group spirit, just how much constructive energy we're getting out of the information. And we never know exactly how much we are going to give or not give from week to week. It really depends on you whether you realize it or not. I think many of you do at this point. That's why I'm not permitted to use notes or to make plans as to what we're going to talk about, except the general principle.

You give the talk, you know, really, from your own inner soul of just what you need. And as I said, whether we take that up or not will depend on what happens in the group.

So whatever it is, I'm afraid it'll be more than I care to really handle, because I haven't I must. Now the next question I have here, I'm not going to tell you who said it. It's why are you talking to just me? There must be at least 40 other people here. Love. I won't give you the name. Now how many here feel you could have written it? Would you you please raise your hand. All right, now that tells you. You see, I will give you one little explanation. It's really a very small one. It isn't complete. A true spiritual teacher has reached a point where he and or she doesn't speak from the personality level, though, mind you, the personality is used by the higher soul, the higher self the cosmos and the hierarchy the personality is used as an instrument but a true spiritual teacher knows how to put the personal concerns of the personality aside for a certain period you know, that takes a lot of doing I want you to please praise me a minute I'm in the mood thank you Yes?

May I ask a question that perhaps isn't related? But I wondered if Helena Rubinstein had a study with Cavallari and she named her cosmetics the Tree of Life.

And she had had some of those things with her. Well, would Helena Rubinstein have had a knowledge of metaphysics when she named her cosmetics the Tree of Life? The Tree of Life. She named the Tree of Life the Tree of Life. Well, I really don't know, honey. I just wondered if you happen to know her or anything like that. No, I don't know. No, I don't know her. Because it's an unusual name. I don't know her, and I don't know whether she had that in mind. And if she did, God bless her. I think the idea of the tree of life is fine. But I'm sorry. You see, another thing, a true teacher doesn't sound wise when they do. They're really ignorant.

I'm sorry, I must confess, I'm ignorant on this point. I don't know. It's a rather charming one, I think. Anyway then, to go on with this idea of why are you speaking to just me, I remember Dr. Case used to be approached this way over and over again, and I was profoundly impressed. I'm not anymore, by the way, unfortunately. I should be, maybe. But I was profoundly impressed then, and I remember I I asked him, I said, why is it that practically everybody in the class comes and then makes a remark to somebody, it always comes back to us, that they had questions, but they didn't have to ask them, because you automatically answer these questions. And he said to me, he said, he called me by this pet name, which I always loved, It's the Hebrew name with an endearment that has a diminutive after it and I think it's so beautiful. I shall repeat it Hanaleh That was his pet name for me, which is really the Hebrew name for Aaron the Hebrew name is Hana and In that tradition when you wish to give an endearment you you add the diminutive and if I love an elephant for instance I'll add the diminutive which means little but that means really that you're you're feeling a sort of tender protectiveness to you it's a sort of a tender a little something to love and as far as I'm concerned an elephant or a hippopotamus is a tender little something to love so I love the diminutive idea you know Oh yeah, there's a charm about it.

And never mind, I'm not that overweight.

I am really pleasingly rounded.

The point is, he said, he said, a true teacher, a true spiritual teacher, doesn't give the talk.

The one who gives the talk talk happens to be the interrelated group of those before you a true teacher reaches into the heart and soul of aspirants and when you do that uh you put uh you develop or you are practicing a sort of three-way communication the higher soul of the teacher and the spiritual teacher has to have attained definite and complete contact with the Higher Soul. Having done that, this true teacher can also at all times contact the Higher Soul of anyone who comes within the sphere of influence if that Higher Soul has brought you here. You sit here because your Higher Soul brought you. Whether you stay or you don't stay, your Higher Soul brought you. Some personalities decide to have to heck with that I was almost used to bad words because they haven't gotten disciplined enough but the higher soul guides its instruments that it's evolving the whole personality complex to that which it feels will grow it properly. Now the instrument isn't always able to take it and some of them go rushing off and say whoa I can't stand it because it takes self-transmutation. The point is a true spiritual teacher is tuning in to two levels at once. The subconscious level of every aspirant who sits before him or her.

The subconscious level, which means the pattern, along with the higher soul. And so, because of the ability to work with the higher souls, because of disciplines, which I hate to tell you about, they're awful, and I don't recommend them, but you'll probably have to go through them anyway. Way. There are values beyond anything I can describe. It's worth it, really. Anything is worth it, just like anyone who wants to be a ballet dancer certainly feels that it's been worth the discipline to go through the muscular exercises in order to be able to to float with the wind on air to express the glory of this motion.

The point is there is a tune-in that is not just a tune-in on one level. There is an interaction that's taking place of subconscious to subconscious, higher soul to higher soul, higher soul to subconscious and back. It's an interweaving. And it takes a certain amount of very extraordinary discipline to keep one's own personality aside that is a spiritual teacher and to just reach out and envelop and love and have only one thing in mind to bring you whatever shaking up some of it is very painful you know that you've been through pain many of you here and you've had the aspiration to come back and realize that it's for your joy and your fulfillment because we don't like to give up our illusions our delusions these are the subconscious patterns a true spiritual teacher shakes up these subconscious patterns reaches in and presents to you your own illusions delusions and snares the reason the spiritual teacher can do this incidentally is because he and or she has been through every single one of them or how could it be possible you can't understand unless you've lived it and of course I deny everything general principles but this is the principle so So when you have questions in your soul, in your heart, when you're going through problems and pain, if you are a true aspirant, you're always going to have it brought up here, inevitably, because this is my job.

And Dr. Case did it so magnificently that I usually feel like I'm just a novice attempting attempting to develop the awareness he had, but of course none of us can be objective about ourselves. I don't know. All I know is that it takes the development of a certain amount of love, a certain amount of acceptance, and the whole point is that your problems are pointed up, your weaknesses are pointed up. We try to do it in such a way as to help you accept them. We give you the chuckle to release the tension and we know that many cannot accept it and they'll go running off they'll say boy I can't stand him or her and this happens we know it but as you've heard me say before we're out for quality not quantity we have nothing to gain except to release release our own hearts from the pain of the awareness because we've become too interrelated and yet this is part of what is required with the pains and the sorrows and the problems and the conflicts that go on in your heart so we are willing to merge ourselves with your pains and problems and certainly at least during the time we stand here together an interrelated whole I'm not separate from you or you from me when we are working together here I am part of your every sorrow your every guilt your every depression your every horror your every condemnation your every aspiration and yet I am able to keep myself from getting lost by hanging on to our higher soul mind you not yours or mine our because that higher soul is the thing in the desert I have enough strength to do that that doesn't mean I can't do all kinds of awful things if I did I wouldn't tell you about it you might lose faith wouldn't you people have a need to sort of look up to and adore some kind of idol and think this is beyond what I can do we all unfortunately have that need and not all to the same degree so whatever weakness I have if I have it I will hide from you weaknesses I claim I have if you haven't got at all we're playing with energies basically for one purpose only to help us accept ourselves to want us to recognize that we all share these problems of transmutation. And the one thing I know that almost every one of you know is that whatever problem you've had in your heart when you've come here, you really haven't had to ask the question. It's been answered. It's because I'm willing to be one with you, and I consider it the greatest ecstasy and glory and privilege, even though I also can experience profound pain and agony of soul.

But unless we all remain in the ship, we can none come to land. This is part of my training, and this is why we have this situation with certain spiritual teachers. We know that there isn't anything that you do that we aren't capable of. Every one of us are capable of anything under certain conditions. You realize that, don't you? There are certain conditions every single one of us could kill.

And I mean every one of us. Now, I can't step on an ant.

And I have to argue with a fly to invite the fly out of my door when I open the door, because I can't spot it. Yet I also know that there isn't a single one of us that's not capable of murder if we're pressured enough. I know it of you. I know it of me. I know it of everything that walks in a physical vehicle with a personality, because we all have the point where we can break. This is part of what makes us love each other, accept each other, and help each other. This is part of what makes us know what's really going on underneath. Though some of us can take a thousand pound weight before we'll crack, and others will crack at ten pounds. Let me tell you, those who crack at ten pounds shouldn't stay in this temple. Because we stir your patterns very deliberately, as you realize. We stir them because this is the hothouse of evolution.

You are being given the opportunity and privilege of evolving fantastically more rapidly than you would in any other way, and at this time it is very vital, and it takes a certain amount of discipline and training, this is true but when anyone asks why are you talking to just me and I'm not telling you who it was because the one who asked it really knew the answer anyway it's just an adorable question I just have to tell you we are all one and when I am here I am more one with you than you are with yourself and it is my joy and privilege to be that way because there's one little drop of transmutation any one of us makes just for the world's soul and for us all and relieves my pain because I'm too damn close to the pain of the unbrittle soul I want relief let's say I'm selfish if you want to believe that at least it'll give us a chuckle now there's the other question I'm not going to answer it I'll just read it to you in developing our powers isn't it true that when one starts with opening the bottom chakra it is more dangerous in development than in opening questioning it from the top down. Please explain why. Honey, what you want is a course that will take about, I'd say, three to four years. And actually, we'll be covering a good portion of it in the next course, if the inner school decides we will take up the portion of the chakras that have to do with these sex energies that deal with love, marriage, and the interrelationship polarity powers and the mystery of gender that the Tree of Life teaches. Up down and down up, I think we get a little bit confused sometimes. We'll understand that more clearly later if we have enough of what it takes to stick together. If we don't get too uncomfortable over the stirring of our old patterns and have to work them out. I think now we should have our closing meditation.

I remember next Thursday we won't gather together until time for a midnight ritual. The following one, the party, I hope most of you will come so we can cut up and show our adorable human weaknesses.

And last but not least.

Now please relax, spine straight, legs uncrossed if you crossed them, arms uncrossed if you haven't crossed. You can hold them up or down but don't hold your arms crossed. Start breathing deeply in and deeply out.

That's good. Anyone who's yawning it means that you lack oxygen you've got a bad breathing habit where you have to we have to retrain it breathe deeply in and deeply out it's just your system crying for oxygen now breathe very deeply in and very deeply out very very deeply in and very deeply out And as you deep breathe deeply in try to think of yourself as being the whole tree, the entire tree of life. If you want to remind yourself as to what it looks like take a glance at it.

You can even look at it while you're breathing and meditating or you can close your eyes if you can hold it in your image. Suit your own personality needs. Breathe deeply in and deeply out now as you breathe in take on that whole feeling of breathing in the full power of the tree as you breathe out let go of all adverse attitudes attitudes, emotions, thoughts that interfere with your serenity and the fulfillment of your higher spiritual purposes.

Breathe in the powers of the tree, the powers of the total divinity.

Now breathe out all interference, let it go, release it from you.

Just let it out and let it go breathe in the powers of the universal life the tree let go any interference any tensions let them go release them release them out into the ethers breathe in the powers of which you are a center without all tension all sorrow all frustration all hate all bitterness breathe it out and let it go give it up give it up you don't need it just let it go breathe in the power the positive power of the universal tree of which you are a vibrant expression breathe out all hate all sorrow all bitterness all hopelessness let it go release it we don't need it anymore more whatever it has served you don't need it let it go we really need to take in the powers of the tree to blossom in the fullness now release all interference let it go with every out breath take your own rhythm on your in breath and your outfit now we're going to handle just one color of the Malchus group of colors we're going to handle the russet now russet think of the russet as something similar to a burnt orange a burnt orange that's the closest that you can image it properly and that is the color I want you to work with now in the malkuth part of the tree we will give you some other vital exercise on the very last class three weeks from now we'll finish up with the clippus and help you to release your old pattern more fully but right now think of russet at the base of your feet now immerse your feet in this burnt orange russet type of color and now put your consciousness down to your feet and say to your feet let go let go let go go. I let go of all tensions wherever my feet have trod. I let go all feelings of guilt.

I accept the discrimination by letting go all tensions in my feet knowing they are guided by the white brilliance of the Most High now picture the white brilliance of two feet above your head as a circle of brilliant white but not white as the usual white but a sort of luminous breathing pulsating light a luminous more like a pearl pulsating pearl now see that above your head about two feet circling itself in from the outside of the circle into a spiral into the center a pulsating light, pearly, brilliant, the Self, the One, the Indivisible. Now again put your consciousness back down to your feet, see it enveloped in the roughest burnt orange and say let go let go let go all negativity now put your consciousness back up to the whirling pearly glorious cycle of whirling energy going inwards into a point see it going from around and whirl it around into the point with your consciousness me now put your center of attention to the pearly white at the center of the circle and place your full concentration of yourself up there now see it pierce downward through the center of your head down through the center of your being and as it pierces downwards see it permeating outward in this pearly white taking in every part of every atom of your being from the top of your head going downwards through every part of your brain see it two feet around in every direction going through your ears now your face and beyond the back of your head and beyond going downward with a piercing sphere and yet emanating out this pearly white light so it's taking in your whole head now down through your chin your upper throat and backward and around breathing deeply in and out remember keep breathing deeply in and deeply out now watch this white pearly luminescent livingness pulsing in your whole head breathe as you breathe deeply out deeply in breathing deeply out give up to the one self the Sita, the Indivisible, give up all mental misinterpretations of life, release it to the pearly white brilliance for reinterpretation. As you breathe in, take in the knowledge of the full destiny the glory and perfection of your future accept it accept it from the most time now let the pearly whiteness continue down through your throat down to the shoulders now watch it pulsing let your attention stay there holding it from the the complete above to that point breathing deeply in and out now release to the white brilliance all the emotional problems of the past all the emotional problems of yesterday release it to the white brilliance and receive the infinite love into your full throat every part of it breathing deeply in and out now let the pearly white brilliance continue downwards remember two feet around in every direction through and through down through your whole heart center lungs shoulders arms let it go as far as the bottom of the lungs breathing deeply in and out this pearly whiteness Now, release everything in your heart that disturbs you.

Every pain, every hate, every grievance, every bitterness, release it to the White Brilliance which automatically transmutes it to the One, the Indivisible. And in your in-breath take in the knowledge of the unity and the positive glorious loving destiny of your own soulhood within that one breathing deeply in and deeply out release the old hate bitterness pain release it let it go the white brilliance can transmute it for you if you're willing to let go and breathe in the true realization and understanding into your full heart into the breath of your life through your lungs your shoulders and upper arms are involved now watch your solar plexus breathing deeply in and out for just a moment now radiate yourself out again in all directions two feet every direction front back side with breathing in the white brilliance now breathe out all past reincarnational problems to the white brilliance let go whatever your past incarnations have been let them go you don't need those patterns either let them go so that the abdominal brain can receive as in your in-breath this destiny of fulfillment let go of your old patterns of past incarnations or any kind of past even this one and breathe in the destiny of perfect fulfillment and beauty breathe it in with the light brilliant now let your consciousness reach way up to two feet above and down to your solar plexus swing it up and swing it down with each in breath and out breath with your in breath let go to that full whiteness that luminous pearly whiteness let go with your out breath with your in-breath take in the power of the knowledge and the will and the faith in the most high now continue downwards through your full intestinal tract your lower arms way on down till you get to your hips and the reproductive organs stop immediately immediately above your reproductive organs breathing deeply in and deeply out two feet around in all directions give up all tensions of assimilation give them up be willing to assimilate the experience and understand all past experiences as you breathe in accept accept the true interpretation of all things be willing to assimilate and masticate experience with discrimination give up all indiscriminate all wrong interpretations give them up to that glorious luminous white pearly being swing your consciousness up to two feet above your head in that oval and way down to just above your reproductive organs each time sending back up all the wrong interpretations being willing to give them up all the tensions that have come from this interpretation and breathe in the correct ability to perceive masticate assimilate the real meaning of experience and life breathing deeply in and deeply out remember swing it up swing it down keeping the giving up of wrong interpretation and assimilation taking in correct assimilation and willingness to learn you just swing it up and swing it down now bring that pearly white brilliance downward through your reproductive organs your hips your wrists your hands and get down up to halfway down your thigh now swing that energy up to two feet above your head swing it back down now give up all false creative images to the most high on that top swirling circle give it up on the out-breath on every in-breath take in the true destiny of your higher soul as it is in contact with the most high the one the indivisible take in your true image receive it receive it give up the false creative images the false use the ignorant use the immature use of your creative reproductive powers swinging up from the middle of your thighs all the way up to that higher one indivisible self two feet above your head and then down with each in-breath and out-breath swing that pearly whiteness up and down releasing and giving up all old immature outworn images giving them up on the out-breath taking in on the in-breath from that one individual the most high the proper creative image being willing to receive it breathing deeply in and deeply out remember now bring your energy downward through the rest of your thighs your knees to the middle of your calf keeping it two feet all the way around breathing deeply in and deeply out at all times with white pearly brilliance of the one the most high send it all upwards bring it all down now in your own mind in your heart kneel you're now using that part the center of the energies which would be the kneeling kneel mentally with all these energies sweeping up and down kneel in front of your higher soul which is one with the divine one unity and creative principle of the universe god and send up your supplication with every in-breath saying divinity take charge of all of me with every out-breath say to yourself I give up all false personal desire for the true fulfillment thou hast in store for me be willing to give up the immature desires the nonsense the unnecessary kneel in supplication to your higher soul the most high breathing deeply in send it all the way up two feet above and then bring it down I open my heart to thee O thou one thou universal one to receive me into the fullness of my destiny I give up to thee o thou one thou universal selfhood I give up to thee all the immature images the unnecessary the nonsensical images I have held that have made me behave like an infant and anti-socially in all various ways I release that to thee transmute thou me I am thine bring your energy downward now to your ankles the white luminous all aroundness and mentally stand up breathing deeply in and deeply out swing that energy up to aheya that's the one the indivisible the universal self and bring it down permeating and feeding and nurturing you now send all of your emotions all of your thoughts all of your actions upward and say I release all activities to thee oh thou higher soul of me I release my guilt for I am willing now to walk in thy will I release my sorrows for I am now willing to be filled with thy joy I release my mistakes for I am now willing to be filled with thy wisdom to send up deeply and bring in deeply this energy now come back down to your feet with the russet watch the russet now see the russet go into a whirling motion with your feet clockwise a beautiful russet at your feet now say to your feet I command you to walk in all ways and at all times under the direction of my higher soul which is this one with the universal selfhood of all that is Whirl that ruffet around your feet I command you to walk in the divine will I I dedicate all that I am, all that I hope to be, all that I have ever been, to fulfill the destiny of my own higher soul, and I will commit nothing to come in or interfere with that.

Now watch that russet turn into the pearly whiteness getting more and more of an ethereal color and now see yourself permeated as an oval of this pearly white light of the one's self send it up from your feet two feet above your head bring it down now as you send up and up a prayer O Thou Thou One Thou Lord of Life give me the ability and capacity to walk in Thy ways no matter what the outer appears to be to know that I am forever guided in Thee of Thee and with Thee give me the strength to follow the path thou hast put out for me and do not let me falter o thou Lord of life but should I falter pick me up and keep me going for I now dedicate the love of my heart and soul and mind and body to thee and and I ask only that thou givest to me the ability and capacity to love wherever I go, whatever I see, and to reach for thy vision and thy will in all ways.

Now listen to the divine name of Marshal Sinist Fullness, which is Adonai Melech. Listen to the tones and we shall chant it together but listen first take a deep breath Madonna I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Again, deep breath.

Adho Sai Deep breath. Deep breath. Big exhale.

Oh wow.

Deep breath.

Deep breath.

O thou Lord King Adonai Mele I have chanted the power of thy name to give force to the dedication of my heart and mind my body my soul to walk in mahout in thy way grow me hold me love me this I ask for this I am now willing to give to thee and all livingness the sense from thee. Amen.

Return to your normal breathing wiggle your toes your feet your ankles wiggle your calves tense them and release them your knees your thighs your buttocks your hips pulling your stomach tightly very tightly pull it all the way in and release it all the way in and release it now tense your chest together as though you're pushing all the air out just tense it the muscles around your whole chest now clench your fists clench your arms your upper arms shoulders now clench everything and release from the bottom to your shoulders clench them and release now crunch intense your throat now your face muscles make faces so you hate somebody now now a little after to get yourself back fully into your body just make faces grimace with your mouth you know with your face so that you know one cheek the other cheek wink one eye the other eye wink now now lift your eyebrows as though you're suspicious of people the back of your head now roll your head around three times in one direction three times in another now lift your arms all the way up now stretch as though you can want to reach that ceiling feel big stretch everything everything now that down again now again release it now stretch back up all the way up up hard and release back down there I think put the lights on now blink your eyes blink your eyes I want all of you to get back into your vehicles
