As I started, before we had the tape recorder, I will repeat. The Sephirah, and remember, Sephirah alludes to the one of the ten emanations of God on the Tree of Life. The Sephirah we will be considering tonight in attainment on the Qabalistic Tree that has to do with the paths in many ways. The consideration we will be giving tonight is that which we may also think of as being the twin of what we discussed last week. Last week we spoke about metzach called victory, the desire nature, the emotional part of our being, that which actually starts the personality aspect of human consciousness. Now then, the emotional life, the desire nature, is meaningless in itself. It's only because of its polarity with the opposite side of the tree. Remember what I've said over and over again, that the right and left paths, and And less does not mean evil, by the way, those of you who've been reading other sources of information.

Here we have to think of the right-hand pillar, the left-hand pillar, and the middle pillar, which equilibrates the tree of life.

And when we think of the left-hand pillar we're thinking of that which has to do with the consciousness that involves the feminine principle of deity and its development and expression on that line or that path or that pillar the pillars of solomon are involved in this incidentally when we look at the right hand side that is as you face the tree of life we are seeing the masculine side of the pillar, the father aspect of God or life, and that which expresses the force or vital energy, the seed of deity.

The left-hand side being the form side of deity inasmuch as it brings the development and evolution of form, the principle of form comes from the divine part of deity which we call the Divine Mother or Bina or Aima in Qabalah and as you face it on the right hand side you see the masculine the surging life-giving seed producing part part of life. However, the tree must be thought of as something other than that as you're facing it. Work on the tree has to do with an ability to back into it. The reason I give you that idea is because when you back into it, you are actually expressing the tree as a living part of yourself. And then if you notice you have a reversal the feminine pillar then is your right side the masculine pillar is your left side when you back into it and actually that's what works that's how it actually does work if you are a living tree and you are you are a reproduction of deity it It is the right side that expresses the feminine and the left, the masculine.

The right side expresses the future, the left side, the past. The middle pillar on the tree of life is expressing the equilibrium, the actual evolution of consciousness itself. That part of you which becomes aware of its own livingness and learns how to guide and to work with the forces and the form level in order to grow itself once you have achieved a certain level of evolution of course so that consciousness grows itself through the ability to become aware of those two apparent opposites which are not what they seem They are more like a coin, as I've often mentioned to you. And one side of the coin expresses one part of the force aspect of God. The other side of the coin is expressing the form aspect of God. And one is meaningless without the other. If you had force without form, everything would just dissipate away instantly and completely, and there would be nothing to work with.

If you had form without force everything would become frozen held together in a pattern and there would be nothing to work with it couldn't be released so you have to have the interaction of force and form for consciousness to become aware of itself and for consciousness to develop an ability to express itself for consciousness to become aware also of its capacity to control both the force and form side of life in an ever ascending level this is what is thought of as that spiral you know you become aware of things on one level and you think ah so now I know what it means but after a while you keep going and suddenly you discover when you've taken one spiral you discover you weren't really aware of it as it is at all it was awareness on a special level when you get to the next level you discover it's different and when you get to the next level it's different again haven't you gone through life thinking you have interpreted an experience accurately and that now you'd never be or do or feel in a certain way, then haven't you discovered that you go right back to being and doing in that way, only different? It is a higher level, but the and the next time it doesn't take as long to catch on and you're able to handle it. In other words, consciousness grows through learning how to understand and use these pairs of opposites and the pairs of opposites are not really consciousness they are the aspects or you might say the material of cosmic substance that consciousness uses actual consciousness is through the middle pillar so that in a way you might say that God the Father which is Chokmah and God the Mother which is Binah or Imah that these are not actually consciousness as such they are expressions of the one consciousness which is really a heya the crown the one the indivisible and yet it is through the interaction of these two parts of deity its masculine feminine its fourth form its past future its light and apparent darkness darkness really means ignorance in one way in another way it is that which we we are not yet aware of you know remember when we say ignorance really we're alluding to that which we do not yet know or understand and it is only as consciousness travels from apparent past to apparent future that it learns to understand what is occurring and learns to know itself.

So here now we are dealing with that which you see on the tree of life as that orange circle, the circle representing the part of the expression of the universe and deity, which we can think of as being, incidentally, the intellect of humanity.

The intellect of humanity. Now, isn't it interesting that that which we can think of as the intellect of humanity is on the pillar, on the Tree of Life, which is the feminine pillar? And surely all you boys know that women are unintellectual from your point of view.

That doesn't mean this is true. And just saying from your point of view because you are accustomed to thinking of consciousness and the way consciousness works the logic of step by step thinking you are accustomed to thinking of intellect in one way and yet here on the Qabalistic tree of life that which is associated with the intellect of humanity is on the feminine side of the tree. All right, now I'll clue you in.

I am not saying that the feminine form of deity is intellectual as against the masculine form of deity, which is not. Keep this in mind. What I'm trying to point out to you is that the feminine pillar being the pillar of form, that is the pillar of manifestation. Intellect can only discover itself through its expression in form. The manifestation of intellect comes through form, and it is the feminine principle that gives form to intellect. That sounds a little abstract to you?

Let's try to take an analogy or two man as such but remember we both male and female carry the qualities of both after all we're the product of our cosmic father and our cosmic mother and so we always whether we are in a feminine vehicle or in a masculine vehicle we have the gift we have received genetically both on the spiritually genetic line as well as on the so-called physical genetic line we have received the qualities through the evolutionary factors that deity incidentally has brought about we have received the qualities of the principles that involve both cosmic father and cosmic mother.

We are the offspring of God. We are the only begotten child of God.

Incorrectly translated as son of God in the Bible, by the way.

Now, think of this. We are what could be said as being the only begotten offspring. What does this mean? That when the evolutionary factors put into action by deity itself reach a point where self-consciousness is achieved, at this particular point then, we become the begotten, part of the begotten. When one says the only begotten offspring thing or the only begotten Adam Adam meaning generic humanity the only begotten Ben in Hebrew which means son but this son actually is involving the idea of humanity mankind is the idea when you hear the word mankind you don't exclude the female from it now do you or you would you would be even foolish if you did, how did you come into this life?

Were it not a cooperation between the feminine and masculine aspects of humanity or mankind?

And of course, I hate to say this, but inasmuch as so much of our literature has come to us from the masculine sources, naturally the mankind is part of the terminology that has come to be understood. This was not so long ago. It's through the translations in the last two thousand or so years that certain ideas have been ingrained into people. In actuality, the masculine and feminine aspects of God are co-equal, co-vital, or none of us would be here.

And because of this we have to understand that when we speak of the ability to express intellect to have for example logic now the masculine aspect of deity when it's manifesting in the physical form of a male is of course quite enamored with logic which is quite all right There are plenty of souls in feminine forms that are just as enamored. However, each of them would have a different interpretation as to what logic is. And unless you agree together as to what logic is, you start to fight. It's like fighting over a semantic interpretation of an idea. Often two people get together and one person will say I believe in something and such and such or something or other and the other person will say excuse me the hell you do and I'll tell you often they believe in exactly the same thing it's because they use some word or some phrase that had a particular meaning to them that they completely misunderstand each other and you have a fight on your hands it's like the story I love so much I forget where I first read it it isn't mine I wish it were but it is in a way it is on the level of a haya of the one and the indivisible and so it belongs to all of us of these two knights in shining armor who came along on their fine horses with their fine little swords and they met right in front of an inn and one looked at the other and said oh how how do you do sir knight my brother isn't that a beautiful sign on the inn with its lovely silver lettering and the other knight said ah yes I agree with you this is a fine looking sign only forgive me my brother but this is beautiful golden lettering and the knight on the other side said what are you calling me a liar and the one on the other then the other knight said are you doubting my integrity and honesty the sign is gold the other one said it is silver you have insulted me and the other one said you have insulted me and of course you know you have to protect your honor so they took their lovely little spears and for the sake of honor and great nobility they went they dashed at each other with their noble horses and pierced each other through the heart very beautifully each made a mark that after all nobility must be must be protected you know your integrity must be upheld mustn't it and they each pierced the other through the horse and as they fell they fell each on the other side and what do you know what do you know on one side the sign was gold and on the other side it was silver and what have they been fighting about you see it's a good uh analogy it's a good lesson This is what we all do, every single one of us. We fight with each other. Not me, incidentally.

I refuse. I don't like to fight. Unless I have to. But I've always said I'm a devout coward.

Whatever one is, one should be devout.

And if I can avoid a fight I will avoid it not like hell because that's not spiritual but you get the general idea my darling the point is we misunderstand each other all over the place and so here when we come to the the bottom sefirah, which doesn't mean unspiritual, incidentally, but the two levels. Last week we were discussing the desire emotional nature. This week we're discussing the so-called intellectual nature. The question comes up, why the, I almost said the devil, but that wouldn't go, why the angel should the intellectual aspect of deity be on the feminine side of the tree. And don't any of you girls go home and say to your husband, ha, it's the women who are intellectual, because you'll be all wrong.

We're not going to have any of that.

The point is, the feminine side of the tree is the form side.

And there can be no intellectual ability or capacity, except there is an ability, to hold the consciousness centered into one area. Remember your magician? I hope you're taking your lessons and remember your magician. There he is. Hey, light him up! It doesn't look beautiful this way. We want beauty. There. Am I better?

So you see, there's your magician. Now what is that magician doing? He's concentrating things down.

Concentrating things down. All of consciousness is an ability to take from the larger and bring down to the smaller. I was speaking to someone only yesterday, a very wonderful, adorable boy, really, who couldn't bring his consciousness down when it came to loving because of terrible traumas he'd had in childhood and of course we're not blaming the childhood because even a child will react only in terms of its own soul but if there's a capacity in the soul to react in a certain way it is the environment that will bring it out and grow it so you cannot turn away from environment environment is a very important thing indeed and environment can help bring up the beautiful in a human being that has the capacity for the beauty and it can bring up the opposite it depends on the capacity of the soul but you'd have far more beauty and goodness if you had environment that would bring this youthian goodness into expression so never underestimate environment even though you may believe in karma which certainly I don't have to believe in because I know it exists but it is not what we think it is the point is and this is a very important point indeed that those who are afraid for example to love and how many here think they're not you think you're not afraid to love I have news for you most human beings I come across say this to me well after all there's a certain core you have to keep and violate there's a certain core you have to keep back otherwise you can be destroyed Don't you think so? Do you? Yes, you hear that? You all think so, whether you know it intellectually or not. You all think so in a deeper part of your nature. Every single one of you sitting here, incidentally without exception only some of you think it in a very desperate way others of you think it just mildly some of you are on the edge of saying nothing ventured, nothing gained others are saying I should risk myself you can't trust them they will tear and rend you which incidentally they will it isn't that you're wrong my darling you couldn't be more right the point is as Khalil Gibran put it so beautifully in the prophet if you haven't read the prophet please do so and not once but I'd say about a thousand times you'll start really absorbing it then and if you haven't got the book of tokens which we have, Dr. Case received that, from the higher upper uppers. If you haven't got it, get it.

Between these two things, along with your lessons and studies, you'll start discovering something very extraordinary. The point is, as Khalil Gibran did point out in the Prophet, if you're not willing to risk yourself, you will laugh, but not all of your laughter.

And you will weep but not all of your tears now it's all right the intellect the splendor is really that which holds that form together in other words your mind says I've been hurt people betray me they don't understand me here's the intellect don't think it's anything other they betray me it's true but people don't betray you everyone betrays themselves because they haven't achieved the growth the ability the capacity to see the larger picture and remember the feminine pillar on this side is the future intellect always looks to the future that's why it protects itself from getting hurt you see it isn't something that's happened yet it's something that you might want to make sure is not going to happen whereas the desire nature is always seeking from the past always reaching to the past with its yearnings and desires for instance you're reaching and yearning for love you're reaching to the the past and if you go back far enough it's because once you were beginningless endless cosmic love floating in the heart of God that's why you reach for it you look to the future for it because you're reaching and searching for expression of love and you're searching and reaching for expression of love because you must whether you want to or not you must because this is the way evolution works we are all reaching for the love the complete union of ourselves with God all of us but what we don't realize is that if we try going the way of the misinterpretations of our Eastern brethren and the teachings incidentally amongst some of them are dangerous indeed if we try going that way where they say kill out desire so that you can get to Samadhi or Nirvana what we are doing is killing out the very thing that can give us enough aspiration to achieve achieve. Furthermore, if we're going to have to protect ourselves from being hurt because other people are going to betray us, incidentally they will, even no matter how smart you are, they will and others won't. Time marches on and we get to understand more and more that the betrayals come mainly because we have not yet evolved enough discrimination to know where to place for the framework, the form. Remember the intellect has to have a form or it cannot be. Intellect is a concentration of the fourth aspect of God in a particular area of of knowingness, expression, thinking, analysis, and so on.

Intellect could never exist without form, because intellect is concentration.

When you're worried about something, you're concentrated. So what do you do? Your mind starts really snapping along a mile a minute. You're trying to use your intellect to analyze your problem, and you're concentrated.

Intellect is the ability to use concentration in order to try to understand what is and what is to be and what can be under proper activity. That's what intellect really involves. And it is the feminine aspect of God that gives form. Concentration is form. It's a holding together.

Without a holding together consciousness goes all over the lot as I mentioned a little earlier then I was talking about the lad who was being self-protective he wasn't going to love because this is dangerous and incidentally it is very dangerous until you learn how to love intelligently. But how are you going to learn how to love intelligently? Until you understand, and understanding is one of the names of the Divine Mother, Aima, on the feminine pillar. Until you learn to understand, how are you going to learn how to love and how to think and analyze any and every situation as it actually is, as against your illusions and delusions, which are really the ignorance. That is, we don't yet know. This is what ignorance is. We haven't yet grown into understanding of something or other. That is what ignorance is. I mean, it isn't being evil. We've all done all sorts of things that we'd rather not have done, but how can we help having having done them. Yesterday you were more ignorant than you are today. And the day before is that much more. Each day we add to understanding and knowledge. Isn't this expansion of consciousness?

And everything is whirling outward into expansion. Everything, including the physical universe, which is really what?

It's really an aspect of the form nature of God rushing itself out in its own growth of selfhood. And we are centers of consciousness within this.

So why get upset about our ignorance? Remember always the one thing we outgrow in time is ignorance. And so we keep using the intellect.

But the intellect is utterly meaningless without the desire nature on the opposite side.

You think there could be such a thing as intellect without emotion? You're absolutely wrong.

In order to have enough drive to hold your consciousness together, you have to have emotion, interested enough to do it. For instance, have you ever tried concentrating on a book you weren't interested in?

I ask you. All right, suppose you're studying. Suppose you're going to college and they're giving you the most boring subject on earth.

And it's so hard to concentrate on it. But somehow you manage.

Do you think it was because there wasn't desire there? Your desire to pass the test and get through school was so great that you put the the form side of nature, in other words, you use the feminine aspect of God to force and hold your consciousness on a subject or in an area that otherwise would not remotely have been able to hold you, so that your desire nature is still involved in forcing you to keep your attention on something that bores you. Unless there's a desire somewhere you are not going to be able to concentrate on anything you cannot even remotely think of intellect without desire or desire without intellect they are meaningless without each other each pair of opposites on that tree are not opposites at all they're the opposite side of one thing a coin and consciousness utilizes and pushes them back and forth and as we get an imbalance or an apparent imbalance we gain the experience the understanding and remember this is the bottom part of the understanding on that pillar the feminine pillar on the tree so attainment on the tree of life remember therefore involves an ability to use your intellect in such a way that it can receive the understanding from the topmost part of the pillar so that it can be aware of and be able to utilize the driving desire desire fourth aspect of the of the opposite pillar which is the masculine pillar and it is only when they meet together in equilibrium and here in this triune part the equilibrium will be what yes that violet circle that emanation which is called in Qabalah the foundation and incidentally that foundation uh is given many uh different names amongst them incidentally we have the name of the lord of life that's where it comes from the lord of life that is the reproductive center according to qabalah of the lord of life that deals with the actual reproductive organs along with that it is the subconsciousness along with that is what you often think of as the astral world it is the that which receives patterns and from the reception of these patterns projects the final physical manifestation which is multiple below below there and each side the victory venus desire nature on the one side on the other the intellect the splendor which is another name for it you see splendor written there on this era this emanation of deity these two in their interplay bring about the development of the patterns in the subconscious field your subconscious field as well as the subconscious field of nature or the planetary soul and so it is the patterns that are received from your mind on your personality mind by the way because your higher mind has to do bear in mind with that upper triangle but your personality mind has to do with that lower triangle and it is projected by your higher mind your personality mind is that which is evolving your personality mind is that which your higher soul or your mind is growing that is why anything you think is so is not so tomorrow though it might have been so today, because it's growing. Anything you think you desire or feel today is not the same thing you'll desire and feel tomorrow. It is growing. There is nothing in your personality that can remotely remain static because you're higher. And the higher one, remember, has to do with what we call chesed, the blue Sephirah, love, mercy. The opposite one it's twin and they're opposite the opposite side of the coin called gebura justice that which actually dissolves form incidentally even though it's on the form side of the tree it dissolves form to build new forms it is justice it is severity it is that part of deity which which is bringing about the development of what you might call the completed individual through the breaking down of old forms in order to build a new and bear in mind if you didn't break down old forms you'd be stuck how would you like to have been stuck in say say the most miserable moment you ever had and that's the good huh so you see this is a benevolent aspect after all isn't it you've got to learn to think of things in a new way when you're dealing with the qabalistic method you have to learn to think of life as being a building up and a breaking down but that your consciousness your higher soul is doing it and your higher soul is the eternal part of your selfhood so that everything I repeat below that yellow sephirah which deals with the Christ center of you generic humanity your eternal sonship and daughtership with the most eyes as you you being the begotten one.

Everything dealing with the four lower emanations are the changing parts of personality.

And so you will start welcoming these changes and as you welcome them, you will make them more rapidly. And as you work with the tarot, you will be able to do it far more easily without the pains that you bring on yourselves. Because we don't have to do it with pain.

Suppose, for example, let's give you an example. Suppose your mind had a picture in it, because it's only the mind that can hold a picture, and that's the one we're dealing with now, this sephirah. Suppose your mind held a picture of something special that you thought you wanted, and it has, hasn't it? And suppose that picture you were holding had to do with getting a specific individual or at least getting rid of a specific individual sometimes we hold one picture, some another but incidentally if you hold a picture of getting rid of an individual you're doing it the wrong way because you're holding the picture of just having problems with the individual only when you outgrow magnetic attractions do individuals leave you or you leave them easily and smoothly but whenever you have a feeling you want to get rid of an individual all you're really doing is tying that individual more tightly to you and so you should incidentally until you see that this is not the way divine consciousness which you are should work so but this form then that you hold in your mind you're holding a picture in your mind now this picture in your mind is something you think you want all right now you get it let's all admit that we've gotten it remember the story I told you about the woman who decided she wanted a husband and she was overflowing with all the husbands in the neighborhood chasing her with less than honorable intentions all right now she was holding a picture in her mind and she got it now this picture in the mind now this is the mind that is holding the picture the mind that holds that picture is the part of our nature we're discussing tonight in our personality because the upper mind the higher mind doesn't particularize in that way the form side of our mental imagery is in the personality part of our being and we will change it in other words we get what we think we want and sometimes we wonder why did I get this or that I never wanted it. I just remind you of this woman, although many of you have gotten plenty of things you thought you wanted, haven't you? And then decided you didn't want it. But it is good to hold these images. Now if you desire something without an image, incidentally, any image at all, you're just dissipating your energy. If you think of a thing intellectually only, nothing can really come of it. Until the force and the mental form work together, until they do this, you haven't got the impregnation of the form or the image. The more desire you have, and that is on the masculine side of the tree, the more force you give to the image that is held intellectually after it has analyzed and said now the reason I want this is because I want to have such and such and such and such do you notice that the mental or intellectual image is dealing with the future always with the future the desire part is dealing always with its past because what it wants is fulfillment. It wants to regain what it had even though it doesn't consciously know it.

That which we weep for, incidentally, is that which has been in the past. Isn't this emotion?

Desire? And so we start searching for it all over again in various ways. But to understand your mental workings properly, and you'll have to, you have to be willing, as I pointed out at the beginning, to risk yourselves, but to risk yourselves in an enlightened manner. In other words, you have to be willing to see that it is important to learn how to direct your own mental forces with your emotional forces involved. You have to be willing to take what they call the calculated risk in order to discover what you really want and do not want. Otherwise, how are you going to find out? If you want to achieve God, if you want to achieve deity, in those six easy lessons, as I've pointed out before, really, you're not going to do it. You're going to get caught up in charlatan after charlatan or in deluded person after deluded person or deluded school of thought after deluded school of thought until finally you become very weary and you're willing to go ahead and do it the easy way and incidentally the easy way is the way of finding out by being willing to grow if you were 12 years old and decided I love being 12 years old but uh I'm kind of tired of the restrictions of being 12. I want to be 21, but I don't want to go through those glandular changes between 12 and 21. Do you think you could reach 21 if you did something to cut off your glands?

In the same way, if you want to know what it is to be in union with the Most High, if you really want to become the ruler of your environment and you're going to have to incidentally sooner or later you'll have to but the point is if you really want to now you're going to learn you're going to want to learn how to hold the kind of images in your mind in your consciousness which will bring you the fulfillment you're after.

And you're not going to learn how to do it unless you're willing to take your calculated risk. You're not going to get across the street unless you're willing to make a run for it.

Believe you me, it sure is. But a strong soul isn't taking any risk at all, my darlings. And let me tell you, that splendor is strong, even if it isn't your personality. Your mentality on the personal level even if you think you're dumb is strong the only people who really haven't got a strong enough splendor at this time are those who are still in a weakened personality state where they'll rush to the drugs or the alcohol to avoid their responsibilities responsibilities and they'll still grow although it'll take many incarnations unless they wake up right now and Decide to use the strength within their being The point is You are strong indeed You are strong because you are able to keep a form in your own consciousness You are able to keep a form in your consciousness or you couldn't have developed a human form at all. And incidentally, it is an extraordinarily complex form, isn't it?

You are strong because you've been able to do enough reading and studying.

You've been able to do enough wondering and hoping and yearning in order to try to find out what it's all about and what you can do about it. You are strong because you come to a place like this to find out what you can do to try to get a map regarding the journey you're after with a little helping hand.

You are strong because you are willing to take this journey.

You are strong because you're aware of the fact that there is a journey to take. You are strong because you've been pointing your consciousness, which means the combination of your mind and your heart on the personality level you've been willing to use that combination in order to try to attain to get out of this trap that you've gotten into because of not understanding you are strong because you are reaching and yearning and are willing to do whatever is necessary to study, walk, talk, listen, question, work. You are fantastically stronger than you think, every single one of you. Once we become aware of this strength, if you didn't have this strength you couldn't concentrate on a book, you know. Every kind of concentration shows strength. Every time you've been violently in love, you have shown an extraordinary strength of consciousness. You've been focused. Every time you've been violently in hate, you've shown an extraordinary strength of consciousness. You've been focused. So, I mean, whatever the repercussions of hate are, it's kind of silly. You have to pay for it. It doesn't pay, but once you find out, you stop being in hate and use it a little more constructively, don't you?

The point is every time you have focused with real emotional intensity on anything, you have been showing and strength and incidentally using your spiritual muscles to gain more and more strength. Every time you have aspired you have been showing your strength. But bear in mind that the thing that makes the intellect so powerful and the only thing that makes it powerful is your willingness to have emotions I repeat your willingness to have emotions your mind is nothing it is absolutely nothing without emotions you could concentrate concentrate on nothing except you have a desire. Do you study chemistry? It's because you desire to understand chemistry or want to do something in relation to chemistry. Whatever it is you can concentrate on, it's only because the desire, the emotional nature is behind it. No matter, I repeat, no matter how much it bores you, if the desire is stronger than your hatred of the discipline, because boredom is only dislike of discipline in certain areas not all boredom but shall we say certain kinds of boredom but if you have enough desire you go through you hold that concentrated substance of God and that's what we have here in splendor and you by holding that substance of God you develop a form in the subtle part of the universe that is the higher astral area of your own being which we all share and in that higher astral area those who can see can see thought forms and these thought forms are the matrix from which the physical manifestation is going to come and only the strength of your desire will bring about the manifestation of your mental image. I repeat, of your mental image. Your thinking capacity comes from the restrictions of the feminine principle.

Your driving desire nature, incidentally, comes about through the attraction or driving desires of the masculine principle the seed of life is in the masculine the development of the form is in the feminine and before we have our break just one little thing that may I hope bring you a chuckle bear in mind that when a man gets all nicely excited about some new discovery that has all the logic the step-by-step development the woman will listen and she'll say oh does that mean then that next year we can buy the new house or have the car or buy the kids a pair of shoes and the man may tear his hair unless he has very active genes that don't give him enough hair to tear and then he'll tear something else maybe and they'll say you don't understand and he'll think the woman has no mental perception at all utterly illogical here he's giving her this glorious step-by-step awareness this logic about an idea a discovery and she listens and immediately jump to not the next consequence but about three or four or five steps or consequences ahead as a potential or possibility please remember that in actuality the feminine principle is always reaching to the future as such when she's in a feminine form and therefore she is seeing the final outcome for the manifestation if this a piece of beautiful inventiveness comes to pass and she's not being illogical at all not at all she is merely jumping to the final effects because of her mind working in that way. Not that women can't take the discipline of the step by step. Not that men can't jump to final effects also. But in general, this is the general tendency. This is the point. The general tendency is there because of the kind of vehicle.

A vehicle determines the way we express things. You can't play piano on the organ. You just try and the vehicle determines the kind of expression you're going to get. In the same way the the masculine vehicle will of course because of this drive to know to understand because the masculine vehicle is always being attracted to the feminine form spiritually inevitably how else can it be you put some iron filings next to a magnet and see what happens I mean this is deity so that the masculine principle is always being attracted to the feminine form that's why it's compulsive incidentally then you can't help yourself you can't fight or join you know. It's really quite pleasant when you understand the principles. I don't know what crack was made there. I didn't hear it fully, but it better be good. And this very attraction is bringing an activity in life to the feminine principle which it cannot have. It is stagnant and empty. Accept the masculine principle. Give it its drive. It is an empty black nothingness.

The feminine principle.

I'll be talking a lot more about that in my next class, or God knows what will happen.

It's good God knows, anyway, because we're going to be taking up a very, very difficult subject, the entire polarity, and this is really a preparation for it. All the different levels of polarity in the masculine-feminine principle and how they act out in our practical everyday lives and what traumas develop and what illnesses there are and how they should be overcome, and little hints at methods. We can't cure anybody, but we can give you help to start looking at a thing and go to work yourself in all these levels. And this is really preparatory to this, incidentally. And I don't look forward to that next class because an awful lot of people are going to get awfully upset because of the guilt complexes that the mass consciousness has put into us all of us and we're going to have to stir them and break them up remember it is when you come here we're not out to soothe you and tell you your high spiritual vast beings and come back next week and we'll give you a special message all for yourself from your special teacher if you need that go and get it wherever you think you're getting it here we're out to help you grow to god to take your own growth and evolution in hand you have to be ready for that and so we can be pretty rough and pretty tough and we have to be I remind you we're not out for quantity we're out for quality and we have many disturbances that take place right here and most of you have the aspiration so that you see what's happening you're willing to let these old patterns break up because we give you something to replace it with we hold you in balance here because the inner school is working with us together and this is very vital when We're not alone.

We're not fighting a battle with some inner demon by ourselves. We're just growing, and we have to get rid of one batch of things in order to release this energy to keep going upward and outward. And some of it is a little unpleasant, but it's worth it to laugh more of the laughter, don't you think, and love more of the capacity. And this we have to do. Truly we do. Eventually. We don't want to now, all right, so we can sit back and wait. That's your try to wait. That's your concern. But we're concerned with getting and helping those who want to come along. And we've got to realize that the masculine-feminine pillars here, the final receptacles before we go into that which equal vibrates them on the subconscious level, with all its patterns and the patterns of what actually then manifests our conditions and environments, God knows what we'll say about it next week.

That really lends itself to anything and everything. It starts getting into an understanding of the patterns we've put into our subconsciousness and what brings about then the final environment. The point is it's through the interplay between the desire, emotional nature, and the thinking, mental part of our personality.

Because remember, it's pretty much like a child learning how to draw and paint and build and cook and all that sort of thing. That's why we have problems. We're learning how to use this mind stuff, because we are the mind stuff.

And it is in the interplay between these that we grow and evolve, and what we think and how we think and what images we become willing to hold and what images we sent packing, but fast. And I mean but fast, depends on how much understanding we gain as to the interrelationship between our desire nature, our love nature, and our intellectual nature. We're not willing to love because we're afraid our mind will be sterile and we'll have a sterile, boring, empty, lonely life.

This really is at the heart of it, because we're afraid to love, that is. And we have reason to be afraid but you know some people say I'd rather be unhappy than bored they grow that way anyway until they learn how not to have to be unhappy and if we want to stick only on on the the sort of intellectual side also where we just want to think and analyze about the reasons for life and the reasons for the universe and what happened we become so intrigued with just mental cold mental processes, and they can be most intriguing, that we let all our desire nature go into trying to think things out. And if you think for one moment we can understand and think some things out accurately, unless we have the fiery drive of the love of God and the love of life working with us, and we don't have that if we're not willing to love each other, incidentally, whatever conclusions we come to will not be correct both we have to become partners now we're going to discuss that next week when we go to Yesod which is said to be in Qabalah the sex organs of God did you think God has sex organs?

Sound sacrilegious to you? I guess you're not ready to see the symbolism of the reproductive we will get rid of a few more here I hope not I love you all but a Qabalah calls yes that you know each portion is assigned to the grand man that is the universal being even though the universal being is something beyond in manifestation and so all the patterns of our thinking feeling being all these patterns remember make our future that is that make what is going to manifest on the physical plane and so we have it on all levels We have it on the spiritual level, we have it on the mental, emotional level. You put a hyphen between mental and emotional. We have it on the physical level.

And on the physical level, it, of course, is reproduction in terms of the interaction of sex between male and female.

But then this interaction takes place on all levels, remember, with all people.

So these patterns have this particular aspect in Yesod. And what we're going to talk about next week is going to be really quite controversial stuff you might say but for so we weren't controversial enough but at any rate for this week bear in mind that the mind is sterile without the emotions the emotions are wild and driving and will go nowhere without the mind only together do they work let's have a little break announcements are concerned get the program if you haven't got it and look at that and uh oh yes I almost forgot there's a possibility that my beloved spiritual brother daddy bray uh might be free to come as a guest someday I don't know I expect that I expect it has to be confirmed tomorrow that I'll be having dinner with him uh you know I met him in hawaii he asked to meet me and he met our beloved frater alistair and myself he sent his high priest and high priestess to meet us with the most gorgeous bunch of lays and we had the most beautiful time together plus being invited to a very private uh ritual just the four of us uh or the five of us is high priest and high priestess himself and frater alistair and myself and uh I mean just at sight you know the those who serve the light recognize each other and Daddy Bray is the I consider him perhaps the only true living representative at this time of the healing kahuna he's been trained very thoroughly and this is the branch he serves for helping other people to develop, he's bringing to light the mystical aspect of the kahunas.

And in true occultism, those who are serving one tradition and one method are just as close and just as loving towards the other methods that are considered helpful to the evolution of humanity.

In other words, it's only those who are looking for personal prestige, for personal power, who have a need to down everything and everyone. We have a lot of charlatans in occultism, it's true, unfortunately. We have a lot of people who are full of illusion and delusion and are sincerely teaching a lot of nonsense. This is also true. True. But we have some, and unfortunately not too many on this planet, who have very wonderful and fine teachings and training systems. And I do consider Daddy Bray one of these few. I just took one look at him. He took one look at Fr. Alastair and myself, and that was it. We are very beloved brother and sister and very close and intimate friends because we recognize the spiritual rapport, even though we serve the light each in a special manner.

And I don't know whether he will be free to come Sunday. I'm certainly going to invite him, but he's here, and he'll be here for a while, and I would like you to meet him because I think it's nice to meet someone, whenever possible, who carries a real spiritual emanation. I consider that Daddy Bray is one of the few who do that. I mean, on the really higher levels. We all carry it at times in a different way.

So I just thought I would tell you that there is that possibility, and I cannot be sure until tomorrow night. I was hoping I'd know before tonight so I could tell you for sure, but I can't. It's just a possibility. He will, I'm sure, be a guest for us before he returns to Hawaii, and we won't have time to put it in the program. It's possible it will be this Sunday.

If you want to check with the temple, perhaps Helen will know by tomorrow afternoon. She may be very busy with all the various things, but you can check with her if you want to be sure about it for Sunday, because we will know by the afternoon, by noon anyway, I'm sure.

No perhaps not because I have to talk to him tomorrow night I'm afraid there's no way to know for this week if it's so or not and you just have to take a chance uh all right now now we have several questions here most of which incidentally I'm not going to answer is this going question one discuss reasons that so many married couples agree to disagree after 10 or 20 years of being together this is really more a subject for the next class all I can say is this some people have certain karmic ties which are fine for a certain period. They answer each other's needs negatively or positively for a while. When one starts going in one direction, the other in an opposite direction, they become utterly different than they were. Remember, personalities change. And when they change in such a way that they don't need that particular manifestation they agree to disagree often though they'll pick the very same thing all over again though it looks like they're not until they understand what it is that made them disagree uh haven't you found that so getting the same hot water over and over again but sometimes we evolve to a point where we're able to really change it and this of course is what we're working for with you this is just a very uh insufficient answer it doesn't give the whole story you also have karmic aspects incidentally that have to do with past relationships that have to be worked out more fully one with another and there's so many things involved that is really part of the whole polarity question which will come in the next class series that is the details now here I have another one what causes imbalance in the the masculine and feminine aspects of an individual and creates a personality that belongs on neither side of the fence, as they put it.

Is it a glandular imbalance or inability to swing over from one sex valence to the other freely? This is much too complex a question, again, to take up here, though we are going to discuss it in the next class series.

Actually, what's being asked here is to give an explanation of homosexuality and lesbianism, you realize, in a very nice way. I think whoever wrote the question, I don't know who did, did it very beautifully. I like the way it was presented. But this is a question that we'll have to deal with more fully when we get to discuss more of what is involved with masculine-seminine expressions on the different planes. All I can say for the moment is this, that often, though not always, it involves past incarnations in one sex with an inability to transfer the psychological reaction and the environment where the parents have not expressed the proper masculine-feminine picture picture for the child to imitate because children grow through imitation in their younger years and whether they take on through imitation are the problem of homosexuality or lesbianism because of the environmental background has to do with whether they have a tendency in that direction because of an insufficient strength in the one or the other at the time, though there's much else that is involved. But this is just a partial, shall we say, just a little partial thing for you to think about. I cannot fully attempt to answer this question. I don't know that I have a full answer, but I have several answers which need a great deal more understanding when we get to understand the masculine and feminine aspects of deity more fully as they relate to ourselves and life in general.

Now, the last question here is, is it not true that 100% love, and love is underlined, removes all survival value in that now that you are one with God, you are ready to give your life on earth for the sacrifice for mankind? Kind. Some of it is in red to show you what's important, like love is underlined in red, God is under, I bet that's you, God is under, and then in red, the best example is the rabbi of Nazareth, Jesus Christ. No, I don't agree with that at all. A hundred percent love does does not remove survival value at all. I say it is exactly the opposite. I cannot give you, again, as full an answer as I want to. The hour is getting late. But definitely 100% love does not, and I repeat, does not remove survival value. As a matter of fact, 100% love makes you decide, by God, I am going to survive because I've got to do something about my beloved humanity.

I know this. I know it from personal experience.

The sacrifice of life is not removing our survival value. The sacrifice is in recognizing that life is meaningless except that we're bringing more life and awakening and help and love to others to help them grow and live and become expressions of love.

Absolutely not those are the whole story of Jesus of Nazareth of course now you're not going to get me in hot water because this takes a whole lecture and you know it you just take the whole lecture isn't he adorable that's what comes you see now here we have a very brilliant mind you know, our precious, you know, I adore him. I said to him, if we'd only met soon enough, I might have captured him. Or he, me, I don't know which. But he does ask wonderful questions, as you can see. There's thought in these things and perception. And actually, this does require quite a whole lecture in itself, because we're all accustomed to the New Testament story, you see. Of the crucifixion of the Christ.

And so the idea of tying this up with having 100% love and the sacrifice, this is quite different, though, if you will take its real meaning as tabalistically implied. We have to die continuously to our old selves in order to be reborn to our new selves. Haven't you had to die to your old thinking and feeling?

In order to to resurrect a new attitude a new area you have here something here far more profound than a literal interpretation and incidentally come easter I'll tell you about that one how's that you're willing to wait for the easter talk that's the time we give we really give we lay it on the line you might say and something that really gives hope and inspiration in every way of course we sacrifice when we love but we sacrifice because we know we have the strength to live and when we love we're not going to let ourselves die when I was I won't tell you how old I was a child bride but let's say when my baby was one year old the doctors told me that I could drop dead any minute. Of course if I had been spiritual enough I'd have said you dropped dead. That wasn't spiritual enough. Point is I didn't. A little chuckle is good. But I had a one-year-old baby and she had no one else because I just I was in the act of divorcing her father. For what reason is my own business? And I said that baby deserves a mother. She deserves love. She deserves training. I will not die. I will do everything in my power to live. Now I say that was a hundred percent love. I was determined to live for the sake of the child. And I figured when she's grown up, then I'll be willing to die. And you know, it was good riddance. But by then I had so many children. I tell you, they played a good joke on me, didn't they? There I was trying, I made up my mind to live for one child and all of a sudden I inherited thousands of children spiritual children glorious adorable wonderful children so then I had to go on living from other children you see that's how they work it no 100 love makes you live and serve and look this is real love uh but we do sacrifice the old life we do die to it we crucify we do crucify everything we're all the christ don't forget it that's the best answer I can give you at the moment and if I'm shocking some of you sorry I wouldn't really if I could finish the whole subject you would see that we revere Jesus of Nazareth with all our heart and soul we certainly do this is something to reach for the spirit of the true Christ which certainly without any question I believe that Jesus of nazareth represented but we still have something we don't understand the whole mystery of the crucifixion and the resurrection is other than has been translated by the misinterpretations of the bible if you're willing to wait for easter I'll give you more of that aspect all right all right now let's finish with a little bit of meditation now because we cannot miss our meditation tonight.

Could we have the main lights out?

All right now back straight Keep your heads in line with your spine uncross your legs Now start breathing deeply in and deeply out rhythmically. Take your own rhythm but deeply in and deeply out. Deeply in, remember, and deeply out in order to let go. Now let go. Go. Start with your feet and let go the problems of the physical universe that you reside in. Let go every physical problem as represented by your feet and think, put your consciousness to your feet and mentally inwardly say let go now travel upwards with your consciousness through your calves your knees your thighs let go let go let go the problems and worries about the path you walk upon let it go release it relax it let your consciousness travel up some more through your hips your abdomen your intestinal organs traveling up let go let go tell it to let go let Let go all the problems of trying to digest and work out and wrinkle your brows over understanding certain things that are puzzling or bewildering you at the moment.

Be willing to let it go for the moment so that you can open yourself up to really deeper, more profound and real understanding. Just let go.

Release it.

Your higher self will know exactly how to handle it let go to your higher self continue letting your consciousness travel up through your diaphragm your breath lungs through and through, remember the through and through process right on up till you come to the base of the throat out. Now let your consciousness go to your hands, your fingertips, and release, release, relax your hands, your wrists, your lower arms, your upper arms, your shoulders. Relax, let go. Whatever your hands have done or failed to do, let it go. Don't worry about it now. Now hand it up to the higher soul stop being tense about it relax it release it now come back together now now that you've swooned through in every way from top to throat put your consciousness up to throat go up through your face and ears and the back of the head Relax, release. Release to God, to face you, show the life for yourself. Release to your higher soul. Continue traveling up your nose, sinus, eyes. Relax your eyes now. Give it up. Relax.

Give it to the higher soul.

Release to that. No matter what you've seen, or think you haven't seen, the higher soul knows. Your higher soul.

Continue going up. Relax your ears.

The back brain, the front brain.

Side up to one foot above your head now then sweep your consciousness back downward telling saying relax just all the way down with the image of an orange light. Sleep down now with the orange light all the way down through your head, your brain, your eyes, your face, your ears, your throat, your shoulders, your chest, your lungs. Now let your arms be included in this as you go out, holding it about a foot out all around you as you go downward with this orange light release release downward through the solar plexus area the back spine the hip remember your intestine downward through your thighs your knees your calves your ankles your feet go a foot below your feet now see yourself immersed and permeated by this orange again bring this orange up through your feet this time include your hands wrists arms shoulders and this wide through and throughness all around as though you're an oval of orange light bring it upward release relax relax your feet your ankles your calves your thighs just keep sweeping it up saying relax through the intestines remember to remember to keep your spine in mind your lower back your middle back your upper back relax it all your through and throughness your digestive the system completely must be involved also swing it upwards saying relax relax give up to the higher soul swing upwards throat all your face your brain your head your ears all the way up through your hair and upwards now swing the arms down again command relax relax all the way down swinging through and through every part of you put your consciousness on each part of you saying relax back of the neck shoulders chest arms solar plexus lower arms hands Intestine, spine, hips, thighs, knees, calves, ankles, feet relax now swing the relaxation up again all the way up go more rapidly now all the way up I'm not going to give you the directions now just swing it up saying relax relax relax swing it down again relax relax relax Now just hold yourselves in this full orange oval breathing deeply in and deeply out.

Permeate it through and through. Relax your total self into it. Breathing deeply in. Breathing deeply out.

Glorious orange light the light of the Sun now start enhancing your emotions in this manner the light of the Sun reflects into my mind through the sephirah splendor hod my mind is the way deity knows itself as the manifested form of the universe please be in and out in this oval of your arms now try to bring your emotions into the ideas that I am now giving my mind is the way deity my higher soul forms itself in order to manifest the splendor and glory of its beingness see deeply in deeply out my mind is a cell in the cosmic substance the cosmic mind stuff of God deeply in deeply out O thou Lord of life my mind is thine thy mind is mine in me thou canst see the Sun through my uniqueness in me the thoughts the hopes the dreams the special way of being is expressed as only through me it can be deeply in and deeply out I open my mind to thee O Thou higher soul of me and to naught but thee that I may more firmly hold the images that Thou art bringing to me projecting through me and therefore help to bring the manifestation on earth of that which is thy idea I open my mind to reflect the ideal of thy will and I welcome that which thou bringest me to help me know thy will in ever greater measure Fill me then with the understanding of everything that occurs in my everyday life as I fill Fill thee, O Lord of life, with my love and willingness to walk in the path thy way.

We will now chant keep breathing in and out we will now chant exactly eight times to bring in the vibratory aspects of eight the divine name of the cosmic mother to help us hold our mind in the form that is most constructive to the divine will for us at this time under these conditions for the necessities of this stage of our growth. We will be chanting the divine name Elohim, holding ourselves in the brilliant urn of Hode, Splendor, the mental substance and as we're chanting Elohim we will be holding in our mind the upreach the aspiration reaching for understanding that will help us to solve whatever problem is the most pressing at this time to understand it enough so that we can take the proper action and develop the proper form in our mental imagery to bring about the transmutation of the most pressing problem of the moment don't think about what your present pressing problem is your heart and mind know it already and very well it's for the understanding and I would ask you to do this if you will every day at least once opening your minds and hearts to the Elohim for the stirring the stimulation of your mind so that it will develop the understanding of the most pressing problem you have today in order to give you the ability and the capacity then to reach forward and learn how to not only cope with it but better still to outgrow it breathe deeply in and deeply out deeply in deeply out hold yourself in the orange oval and now eight times we will take a deep breath each time and we will chant the Elohim on the one full breath and then we will finish with Amen rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest rest Elohim Breath Breath Breath Emil.

Emil.

Emil. Emil. Emil.

Emil.

Emil. Emil. Emil. Emil. Emil.

Emil. .

. . . . . .

Well?

Well?

Well?

Well? E-L-O-H-E oh this oh thou my heart higher soul to thee I reach for comfort to thee I reach for health to thee I reach for solace O thou higher soul light of my being light of my soul heart of my entirety I give myself to thee I give up every problem to thee that thou might bring to me the understanding and the growth so that I may know that everything that has ever been has been my blessing thy growth so that I may know that everything that is to be is a gift from thee dawning in the morrow so that I may walk walk into every area of life in the full confidence that guidance and understanding light my way.

To thee, O higher soul, do I give all things that are in me.

Fill thou my mind with the knowledge and understanding that I may walk in thy peace now and forevermore.

Aum Resume your regular breathing if you haven't please.

Open your eyes.

Say to yourself, I'm happy to have a body.

I'm happy to have a body. That's it, laughter.

Now pay attention to your body. Wiggle your feet and say, oh, thank you, God, for my feet, my calves, my knees, my thighs, all the body of me. Isn't it marvelous?

Get back into the full body of you.

Wiggle it. I mean, just sort of squirm like a child, having the joy of the body.

And say, isn't that the most marvelous invention of God? A body.

It's manifestation. It's form. Wonderful.

Laugh now, because I want you back in your full consciousness.

Put some lights on.

And just rejoice over the body part of the expression of deity. And love it and revere it.

And take good care of it. Take better care of yours than I do of mine.

Well, I don't know about that.

I think everything we are is nice to be. And that's what we must find out so we can enjoy it. Are you all back in your body? You better be or I'll spank you. Honestly, you could really spank me much easier. I haven't got much strength physically I can always threaten all right yeah but laughter helps to reorganize ourselves into our full lineup after receiving what we've done we've received some vast energies today and the thing to do is to sort of use them positively you
