The topic for our talk this morning, the Cosmic Mother in Qabalah.

And I think that this, the very chuckle of the story, indicates a certain aspect of the Divine elements regarding the feminine principle, which we call Cosmic Mother, that is overlooked by so many spiritual aspirants. It's especially overlooked by those who haven't had good relationships with their own genetic mother or had problems of various kinds. So, what we're going to try to discuss this morning is some of the, is at least a specialized aspect of what Qabalah implies or means when it talks about the feminine principle as related to the Cosmic Mother. Now on the Qabalistic tree of life which you see before you the number three the black eminent Sephirah or also called emanation also called particularized expression or activity of consciousness these are all interrelated terms that black Sephirah is related to the cosmic Mother. It is called Bina, one of its names, Bina meaning understanding. It is also called Ama, which is referred to as the sterile mother before the Cosmic Father impregnates her.

It is also called Ayama. You see, there are always many names given to one thing in order to show its different qualities all within the one essence. So it is also called Ayama, and that is after the cosmic father seed impregnates the cosmic mother with the seed of life, which is to begin with the universe, the universal seed, and which is known to function on any and every level, even those levels that we consider personalized they are still specialized aspects of the universal area or expression and this particular aspect of the tree of life is also referred to as the sanctifying intelligence meaning that portion of the total consciousness of God which sanctifies and in this case remember sanctifying has to do with making holy, making into a saintly expression, bringing about, therefore, perfection, because we think of saints, or those who attain various sainthood levels, as being perfected human beings. So it has to do with ideas of being perfected.

It has to do with ideas of becoming purified, or the process that purifies, sanctifies, makes holy.

And this particular aspect of the tree of life is also called the great seas, having to do with the fluidic aspect of universal consciousness, which takes form in word and deed, incidentally, and action. And it therefore also refers to the total principle that our beloved Dr. Case called the finitizing principle, or the principle that specializes expressions or specializes its own universal fluidic substance, which is actually its mental substance, into very particularized forms of being, meaning therefore that it is the aspect of the divine which grows or evolves particularized souls out of its own beingness which is also called the divine soul so that this aspect of the tree of life also remember called the divine soul is said to be that portion of the tree of life which really gives human soul to human beings human soul therefore being divine soul and what is it that we consider jesus is supposed to have developed and expressed and remember jesus is son of man as we are as well as son of god which we are so this divine soul becomes a very important thing to understand when we want to think of the meaning of the cosmic mother in Qabalah.

Now, another aspect that relates to the cosmic mother that very few people seem to utilize enough who are being trained in the Qabalistic way of attainment is the realization that this particular aspect on the tree of life also relates to foresight.

Now, remember, the top three sefirth are called the supernal triad. In fact, that's where the development or the idea of the Trinity came, though it was mixed in with certain pagan ideas by the developing exoteric Christianity, that it became confused, but originally it is supposed to have expressed this particular idea when it was still in its pure essence, that is, before it became an organized religion, you might say, exoterically, when the entire knowledge of Qabalah was still understood and known.

The divine soul the foresight the idea of the supernal triad involving foresight has to do with each of this supernal triad representing the idea of that which was that which is and that which will be so that that which is actually relates basically to Kether the one the indivisible the only, the I am that I am. That's the white Sephirah.

That which was, it really has to do with the Divine Father, strange as this may seem. Remember, in the classes on Thursday night, I often point out to you that that entire pillar headed by Chokmah, the Cosmic Father, that's the gray Sephirah, which is the gray, the blue, and the green, that that entire line or group of emanations of the Most High also has to do with the past and certainly we all realize who can said he said to have wisdom except out of the experiences of the past all the wise have been fools no wonder the fool incidentally is the first Tarot key that comes down feeding into wisdom khatma and coming down that side of the tree of life if you will note so that the development of wisdom comes because of the foolishness of yesterday only out of our mistakes or what seem mistakes from the past do we finally come to the development of wisdom which would indicate that it's good to have been a fool and indeed in Qabalah we learn how to be grateful for past errors knowing they haven't been what they have appeared to be they've been the function that brings about the perfection or the sanctifying which is related to the Cosmic Mother and the Cosmic Mother deals with understanding because understanding understanding comes to us only after mistakes of the past and the wisdom gives us an ability to to analyze and therefore to understand and the cosmic mother therefore is said to be the beginning of the specialized kind of thinking which we call this Capacity to separate one thing from another so that the The finitizing principle, or the kind of consciousness that starts developing individualizations, specializations, has to do with the capacity to develop foresight.

And, of course, it's only out of the experiences of the past. In other words, really, it's from hindsight, isn't it, that we develop foresight? Stop to analyze that, you see, it is correct, too. Now then, what is foresight? Some of us get hung up on phenomena, unfortunately, where we think foresight can only be expressed in what might be called a very extraordinary kind of fortune-telling divination level. So that you have people who do not understand what tarot is really meant to be all about. You have these people who use tarot in order to do divination.

That is, to find out what's going to happen. You know, fortune-telling, divination.

You can come around and find your seat, sweetheart. You don't have to stand.

And this is a misunderstanding of what the principles of tarot are all about, because the true principles of tarot have to do with learning how to utilize each and every tarot key in order to be able to express the powers of these paths as shown on the tree, and the activities of these sefirot, or the circles which the tree of life indicate. Now then, foresight is not that phenomenal from a certain point of view, and yet it is very magical and phenomenal from another point of view. For example, we all show foresight when we are planning to cross the street. We are careful to go to the corner and wait for the signal and make sure that the traffic has stopped. We're showing foresight because we know from the past, from past experience that this is the safe way to go that in as much as we want to get to the other side of the street this is the way you do it so we are expressing foresight now expressing this kind of foresight is no different in kind it's only different in degree from the knowledge that the universal mind has of how to go about bringing about the full sanctification of humanity, that is the perfection of evolution, and just what methods to utilize.

Out of the past workings of the unfoldings of consciousness, the divine feminine aspect of God is what brings about this foresight, the ability to follow a plan carefully in our work, in the lessons, in all the other portions of the training, we find that more and more we learn how to reach to that above. And if you'll see on the tree of life, it is the magician, which is the power of attention taking or bringing the energy from the above, which is signified by the white Sephirah, the one I am that I am. And drawing this energy down by the act of attention into the below or what is symbolized by subconsciousness. And incidentally, Bina is also a symbol for the universal subconsciousness.

So that we have here the universal aspect of the various powers of consciousness that we know we have in what we call our personalized aspect.

But what we have to come to understand is that these very same powers that we express in our personalized aspects are specializations of the universal aspect because there is none else.

In other words, your subconsciousness and my subconsciousness isn't anything separate from Bina.

The universal subconsciousness your foresight and my foresight is in no way separated from the cosmic mother or the bina foresight your capacity to be sanctified perfected purified is in no way separate from the powers of the Cosmic Mother, Bina, Ima. Your ability, your capacity to be specialized, to know, to express the uniqueness of your own individuality, is there because the Cosmic Mother is not something separate from you but is part of every cell in your body every atom of every cell part of everything that we are and everything that everyone else is the order of the heavens is the expression of our cosmic mother the cosmic feminine principle principle, universally expressed within a field of intention. Remember what we have said about intention. All things, universally and personally, are brought about by the power of intention, which means what? Will. So that the will of God becomes intention in that level of expression that it is used, whether it's our personal or whether it's a universal level.

And so the very order of the heavens that is being held in that order, held there by the principle shown as the cosmic mother, is the selfsame principle that holds the order of our own physical vehicle in its particular form and that expresses its order in the interaction of all of the different organs, the atoms, the aspects of being, so that when it is said that man is the microcosm, God the macrocosm, and man is the microcosm or a microcosm of the macrocosm, what we need to realize is that this is literally true. We have a tendency to think it is just figuratively true but there's a you know something that is figuratively true is something that isn't really inside of us it is merely something that is similar to but when a thing is literally true it is actual absolute and actual and you and I must sooner or later come to the realization the recognition the recognition that literally absolutely and literally the very flesh the of our bodies or what we call flesh or experiences flesh the very order of our whole physical system is so held and so ordered because it is the expression of the divine cosmic feminine principle because there is not else.

And therefore, every physical body, whether it's a male body or a female body, is an expression of the cosmic mother.

Whereas every act of insight is an activity of the cosmic father, whether it is a female body or a male body in and through which this is taking place we can say therefore that the cosmic father principle would be expressed more in more essence if we say it has more of the concentration of the insight aspects of consciousness the cosmic feminine has the aspects of the foresight and neither one is separate because either one is unthinkable without the other together they have existed before time began this is the unity and the one of Kether the I am nests but these are the ways we think about and therefore see and express the the idea. And every one of us, whether we think of ourselves as a man or as a woman, after all, when we think of it on the physical plane, we all have within us the X chromosome of our physiological mother, whether we are male or female. And if we are male, we also have the Y chromosome of the father but if we are female we have the X chromosome of the father because the father carries an X and Y physically speaking and the mother is an XX now don't try to exit out remember in this case it's like a plus sign and remember it's an interesting thing that Tav Tarot Key 21 called the world you'll see it behind me assigned to the powers the principles of the esoteric Saturn that this the the ancient the original way of making that particular Hebrew called Ian letter was a cross and it was called the cross and it means the cross tab means the cross or what the cross as what as a as a plus sign or as a multiplication sign so that the sphere of the activity of Saturn, which is assigned to the cosmic mother, Bina, means that this is the power of plussing or of multiplying.

And what can you plus and what can you multiply except yourself? There is nothing else. So that everything is really a multiplication of the self, similar to the way even the formation of a physical vehicle takes place out of the togetherness of the male and female seed what do you have they're catapulted into an activity of order and how does it an embryo grow by self multiplication how else doesn't it you we've watched it on TV screens now this magic this miracle it assimilates it takes in nourishment but nourishment is there to take in except that of God there is nothing else since everything is the substance all substance is the substance of our cosmic mother so everything whether it is being done in and through what we call a physical mother or in and through a physical father everything is a a specialized function, literally, of the One Divine.

And so when we say we are begotten of God, this is literally correct. What else is there to beget us?

When we talk about the Cosmic Mother, we're talking about your mother and my mother. We're talking about the only mother that is. And every single female is a specialized aspect on the physical plane of that one universal mother because there is naught else and every man who loves the feminine principle feels a special reverence for every woman because of an intuitive recognition that is having the insight that is typically a masculine power and yet both have it because no woman could be born no female could be born unless the father had his little say about it in the expression or shall we say the outpouring of the flame of his seed nor could any male be born except for that no male or female could be born except there was was the receptivity of the feminine principle expressed through the womb of God in and through any female. The capacity is always there.

So in essence then, a man who loves the feminine principle is very easily recognized. He looks upon all women with a special feeling of tender awe and to him there's no such thing as an ugly woman you know that's one of the many things that made me decide that my beautiful gorgeous perfect Jacob was the man and I couldn't remotely let anybody else get hold of him because they mightn't know how to treat such a tender creature I couldn't trust him to anybody else I had to take him because I watched him with those angel eyes look at every single female with that adoration and saying you beautiful creature and meaning it meaning it because he could not see a woman who was not beautiful and incidentally this is the capacity to recognize the cosmic mother in and through every feminine principle. I saw this in him.

And along with some of those other elements that some of you are familiar with, I realized that this kind of an angelic precious soul definitely had to be protected from those specialized aspects of God who had not become sanctified enough to treat and nourish and mother this quality. You see, it is one of the sad commentaries is that so many men think that it is unmasculine to permit themselves to be mothered but I'll tell you something my darlings the truly masculine man or no because all men are masculine nesses the man who is the most secure about his masculinity let us put it this way just adores being mothered and lets it be known in no uncertain terms and indeed indeed sees to it that he's mothered, it doesn't have to be unconscious.

And therefore, it's an expression that is full of richness and beauty.

And so those of you who feel that it might be sort of like a mark against your masculinity if you admit to love being mothered, think about it for a while and think how much more joyous your life will be because every true female wants to mother her man.

And just think, you'll have it made, boys.

The life will be so much more delightful and the feminine principle will be able to express itself and fulfill itself without unnecessary frustration. I can't begin to tell you how frustrated I've been a few times in my life. And some people have refused to let me mother them. I've been very annoyed and I've even said, stop interfering with my pleasure.

However, be that as it may. You know, just a little aside, the reading that our beloved Reverend Jacob gave us from the Bible this morning, it has a little history. I hope you listen to it carefully. It's rather an extraordinary history and I think that perhaps it should be shared with you my beautiful Jacob might scold me later but what can he do about it there's no Qabalistic divorce you see and so you'll just have to put up with it and I'll just say it's a test of God you know you know so that you can show how highly evolved you are you just have to pass your test but when we first started to go out together because he he has this magnificent quality of loyalty, and he was a widower who had adored and loved his late wife with every fiber of his being, and had been certain that there can be only one love, and that was forever and through eternity.

When she passed on, he just almost really passed on himself, except by the grace of God that stopped him, in very spiritual ways, so that he had with it, being such a loyal being, the feeling that to love any other woman would be disloyalty to this perfect, glorious, wonderful wife whom he had had and loved and cherished for 17 years.

Now, I say I love that quality, though it gave problems, but that's one of the joys of the universal insight.

It's because every quality that could be a problem, if we learn how to look upon the full picture we can see that it has its treasure and we can love the treasure that it is expressing and indeed in the image that I had been building within the cosmic mind stuff of the cosmic mother the image held just that quality any man I might possibly be able to form a husband-wife relationship with had to have that quality of loyalty. He had to have had this perfect marriage. He had to have absolutely worshipped the late wife and he had to have been a widower otherwise he wouldn't be available to me, you understand.

All these things I knew because I had the foresight from my cosmic mother pouring through me which is the real kind of foresight rather than the misuse that is made of tarot, incidentally. You might call it an intuitive knowing via the Cosmic Mother principle. So I knew these were the qualities that were being prepared and they would have to be this way.

Now, he, being the precious, loyal person that he was, finding himself drawn and experiencing certain levels that were quite extraordinary, because of the interaction that was taking place with our consciousness and the inner levels, and with his sensitivity, he was very well aware of them. He had moments of getting very disturbed where there was an unconscious guilt. Now, it wasn't conscious, I don't think. If it was, he's denied it.

I think it was unconscious thoroughly, though I can't swear to it.

Because of this feeling he had had about the late one.

But there we were, already engaged, mind you, or I think the engagement was trembling on the verge. I'm not really quite sure. I've forgotten. I'll have to ask him.

But the phone rang.

It was past midnight. I think it was closer to 1 a.m. He was living in Santa Monica then.

And he said I was studying my lessons and I became aware of this uh fantastically spiritual being it was actually dr case but he didn't know it then and he said I became aware of the spiritual being and he kept putting it was like words and yet not like words saying go to the bible go to the bible He said, it became stronger and stronger, so I put my lessons down, I picked up my Bible. And, you know, the inner voice said, open it. He said, and I opened it, and I want to read you what it said.

And that's what he read me, what he just read to you from the Bible this morning.

And this was a verification. I should actually have him read it to you again now, so that you can hear it. So that you can hear it again in view of this story because you see it has to do with the cosmic mother it is as exact a description cabalistic description of the cosmic mother as you're apt to find it has to do, remember it says she shall be unto you like a tree of life he was only in tarot fundamentals at the time in his studies he didn't even know the tree of life existed existed in lessons and more precious than jewels and there was something about riches and believe me even that was became literally true because I used to after we got married I decided to cure him of his uh insecurities I mean to let god do it via me you understand and so from time to time he used to try to put his shoes or socks on and you know change would fall out all over the place In other words, I used to just surprise him with all kinds of, even when I had to go to the bank to get pennies for $10 worth of that, you know, he'd just be sort of the treasure flowing with money all over the place.

Like I was giving him new images, you know, to replace original ones. But in this reading it actually described all of the elements that flow from that level of being and as I think those of you who've been coming to the Thursday night class understand by now the Supreme Chief of this order which it is my privilege to be carries the responsibility of channeling the energies of that or from that particular sphere of activity across what we call the abyss whether in other words because there is no outer path to the rest of the personality or the incarnated being which has to do with the seven sefiroth below the supernal triad you see and so it is from the the Cosmic Mother, the Finitizing Principle, that these potentials and capacities and qualities come. Then they are expressed in and through and via the rest of the specializations. That's one of the reasons that the Cosmic Mother has also been referred to as expressing the seven holy creative spirits of the Most High, because this is what they refer to, the seven which are projected or which are born from her womb, and yet remember, not born from her womb in terms of any outsideness, because there is no outside of the cosmic mother womb.

We all are a growth process inside. There's no outside whatsoever.

Now then, who are we and what are we in terms of this Western mystery training system.

We are very eternal, complete, extraordinary, mysterious, mystical, wondrous expressions of the one life.

This one life being in you, in me, in all things. Who are you what are you you are a specialized aspect of the cosmic mother you are a specialized aspect of the cosmic father you are a specialized aspect of the one the only blessed be he the I am of I am who are you and what are you you are a specialized aspect also which is called the begotten the Son of God this being the still the Christmas season I think that is it is a wonderful wonderful not happenstance because there is no such thing as happenstance I didn't plan it that way deliberately, but to have this topic during the Christmas week is to me the most wonderful thing to recognize, because after all, who is Yehoshua? By now, surely we all know, we are Yehoshua, not fully sanctified yet, certainly, not perfected yet, definitely, but certainly we are the begotten, we are the offspring of God.

This is the season when, oh, very surely we should meditate on this fact and rededicate ourselves to becoming more sanctified, which means what? Purified.

And another thing, born of a virgin.

Who is the Virgin take a look again at the tree of life and notice the path connecting Kether to Tiphareth you see there the high priestess now you'll look you can look at it in its larger form in front of you the high priestess is obviously a virgin but she's an an expression of the feminine principle.

And remember, Tiphareth, beauty, is also called the sun, the begotten, the Messiah, the Christ, the sphere of the activity of the sun, of light and life. It is also called the Redeemer.

And so, inasmuch as we are Adam, it is also called Adam, which means generic humanity can you not see that the son of god is born of a virgin there it is on the tree of life also it helps you to see that only those who are trained in this tradition qabalah can remotely understand what the bible is trying to say and there it is saying it and bina is actually then both the virgin for remember she is the forever pure and undefiled she is the cosmic substance which is the cosmic mind stuff which like water as we've pointed out always remains itself no matter what form it takes pour it in the glass it's the shape of a glass pour it in a vase it's the shape of a vase pour it in the bowl the water is the shape of the bowl for the cosmic mind stuff in and through this form which the divine mother holds then it expresses in and through this form which is in a specialized expression of god but it is still the mind stuff of god the cosmic mother then is not something that we need to find.

We are because the Cosmic Mother is.

The cosmic foresight is not something we really have to get so much as that we have to learn how to receive it because it's there all the time. By holding our consciousness in the recognition of the fact that this holy sanctifying forever pure and undefiled substance is really the substance of my body and your body by holding to this we can come to realize and recognize that no matter what kind of depravity man has fallen into from time to time in the past like the purity of the cosmic mind stuff it is for the cosmic mother part of us is forever pure and undefiled and is working to correct us as the reading of the Bible mentioned to correct us so that we can learn to understand from the wisdom of the father to have the foresight of the mother to stop the conduct of the past and then we discover that we are purified from this past and then we also come to understand that we have this guidance always available from the cosmic mother so that anything that we plan to do we will be able to plan it in such a way that we will know the divine guidance is guiding us every single step of the way every step of the way beloved ones your body and my body your soul and my soul your heart and my heart your life and my life live move and have their being inside the cosmic mother take this glorious sanctifying recognition and realization with you today my loves and carry it with you throughout the year we'll continue with the service probably going
