The title of our talk for this morning is Cosmic Unity. I think that's it. Cosmic...

Let's see. Cosmic Unity in Occultism. See? What happens when you study Tarot?

Cosmic Unity in Occultism. Last time I spoke two weeks ago, Our beloved Fr. Rev. Eugene Imard takes the first and third Sundays, as you know, and I take the second and fourth and the fifth Sundays. It's supposed to be either one of us, but it's usually him, unless something unusual comes up. but so every at least twice a month i have for a special series that i decided to give you last time i spoke two weeks ago i spoke about the limitless light or the absolute or that which comes before manifestation which isn't really doesn't sound logical because nothing comes before manifestation but I try to bring us into a togetherness in a concept the concept that has to do with the cosmic egg or the concept that has to do with all that which preceded manifestation as far as we are able to point our minds or hearts towards this idea or concept which in Qabalah remember is referred to as the limitless light and we spoke about it being the no thing and as to the meaning of this limitless boundless essence of mind stuff which is before all beginnings now out of this no thing out of this limitless light something does happen because here we are at least under the illusion if it isn't real and it could easily be real as we shall show you and Israel in its own area or level out of this comes what we call a manifestation out of this limitless light or substance and this in Qabalah is referred to the number one on the Qabalistic tree of life so you You see, what I'm going to do each of my Sundays is try to come down the tree, and the classes were traveling up the tree on Thursday nights, and getting an understanding of the developments that are necessary for us for our own evolution in the linkages as we return from whence we came with the addition of what we've gathered as a result of this entire series.

but through this group of Sundays I'm going to try to bring us together into an insight that has to do with the tree that kind of insight that you call forth because we could give a hundred, a thousand talks on the tree starting as we do from the limitless light of the absolute and go through the series and each time, though we will always deal with the same principles each time we will bring out entirely different ideas is because you see always things are in change and you bring forth from your own thinking feeling levels other aspects of this one infinite beingness so we never have heard all there is to hear nor do we get any real repetition principles of course are always repeated just like the The rotation of the Earth continuously takes place. The travels of the planets around the sun take place, but they're never in the same place, remember. Never.

Because always the sun is also in motion around a center in the galaxy, and then the galaxy itself is in motion around another center. So nothing is ever the same, though it may seem to be so to our outer senses. and in the same manner, though we cover the same principles we always have, originality, creativity, something different, and not something, but a fantastic amount of difference, variation, that's part of the whole excitement and wonder of the evolution of consciousness itself. So we're going to try together now to gain some insight into the ideas of the number one on the Qabalistic tree of life through a few of its attributes, which then help us to hold on to a basic point or essence, while from that point or root we're able to expand outward into areas of our own being, that they truly our own being now we write at the beginning of the services I think it's about the third thing we do though it is part of a whole unity you notice the choir chance that chant of of chance, of which you heard from the Bible this morning, that declaration, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one.

Now, one, O-N-E, actually can be translated from its original Aramaic Chaldean Hebrew. Hebrew. As unity, we could say, hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is unity. And that would be equally correct, in fact, in some ways more correct as a translation. And when the Qabalist says unity, this unity is meant to include anything and everything that appears appears to be non-unity.

Anything and everything that we experience in manifoldness, anything and everything that appears to us as being separate, unity is unity. It is an altogether complete oneness. And so that number one, the crown, that white Sephirah, which means divine emanation amongst other things, is referred to when we declare this unity. And I'd like to remind you that the very beginning of the Hebrews came about because Abraham heard the voice of I Am saying unto him, There is but one God.

Up to that time, the peoples had a God for this and a God for that and a God for something else. And each country and each nation and each culture had a different kind of a God or many kinds of gods. No one had just one God. And whenever you had a ruler of a country anywhere, where that ruler decided that people will bow down and worship him as a god. And then images were set up for this worship, and announcements were made and pronouncements to the people saying, from now on you worship me, you add me as a god. Now, they didn't say as the only god, but you add me as a god, but you have to worship me all the time or every day, because you see right now I am God.

And this was the condition of the entire cultured world of that time. The concept of unity had not yet been declared anywhere.

It was known by the few, the very few, but it certainly had not been declared. And the few were very few indeed in that time and that climb.

or it was the beginning of a new cycle for the evolution of humanity and so abraham gathered his family and remember family means spiritual family just as much as it means anything else and perhaps more so and under the directions of this particular declaration this insight in In other words, you might say this knowledge, this experience, and incidentally, Abraham, Kabbalistically, is assigned to Ab, the father, the cosmic father, if you will, so that we have historically represented an outer manifestation in miniature of a vast cosmic reality or truth.

just like with Jesus we have in manifestation a or a a specific aspect of a cosmic truth in other words man the cabalistic atom which is generic humanity is the begotten offspring of God and in Jesus we have the manifestation of a specialized
