This morning I'm going to speak to you about cosmic illumination through Tarot, but I'm going to give it a special slant, one that I think has not usually been thought about by most spiritual aspirants and occultism. And I'd like to point out, I notice it here now, that next Sunday morning I will be speaking about the truth about Masters of Wisdom and I think it would be a good idea for most of you to become familiar with the real aspects of the Masters of Wisdom as against the things we've come to think because of certain things we've read and so on but anyway for this morning Cosmic Illumination through Tarot I want to to bring to you some of the reasons that using the tarot as instructed in the Western Mysteries can guide you towards cosmic illumination depending on your capacity of the time of the moment and indeed can also increase your capacity so that next year 10 years from now 20 years from now, a thousand years from now, depending on your capacity. And remember a thousand years has nothing to do with death and life. The soul is forever. I hope we recognize this. If not we will, if we work with the methods that verify these truths for us. But at whatever time we finally do awaken to to certain truths.

The thing that most aspirants have not recognized is that we have truths, not just truth. There are many schools of thought like to speak of awakening or awareness on the spiritual plane as truth.

And actually, we have as many truths as we have levels of awareness and awakening from very lowly or immature levels of awakening from one area of understanding to another into very extraordinary ones and the problem that we run into in occultism in trying to explain the idea of cosmic illumination is that so many people, in fact most people, have a tendency to take the idea of cosmic illumination as being the end-all of everything in the way of necessity for growth or necessity for striving or the very end of all things in terms of having to carry on the responsibilities of being and so too many people have gotten the idea that attaining whatever their interpretation of cosmic illumination might be they have fallen into the trap of thinking that this finishes all problems now am I trying to discourage you from cosmic illumination no indeed what I'm trying to get across to you at the request of the Master is that the higher we go the bigger and better problems we get but wait a minute now don't get disturbed here but we can reach a point here and now within this incarnation where we interpret our problems other than we did let's take an example or two so we can understand illumination a little better as we teach it and as has always been taught in the inner mysteries in the true esoteric teachings. Let's analyze this just a little bit together, then we will show you how and why tarot is such an extraordinary method for guiding us, or shall we say for using in ways that we can be guided by that which is part of our own true and inner soul.

All right now let's see what various people have thought cosmic illumination involves and why first of all we must all recognize together that whatever problem we have it's always the biggest now surely you have enough intensity of feeling that you know yours is the biggest. I know I have had that and I know we're all really the same. And whatever problem we're facing in our personal lives, this seems just horrible to us. I mean, when we're children, of course, we dramatize it to the hilt and we march around with a recognition that no one ever felt as deeply. We get pretty shocked if we're objective enough to get shocked. We grow older to discover other people are saying the same things about themselves that no one has ever suffered as deeply haven't you noticed that I remember I had the most terrible shock of my life at age 11 or so when I heard two women each arguing together as to which of them had the more tragic life and I thought what's the matter with them it's obvious I have had this shook me up all of a sudden the most horrible suspicion came upon me could it be that everybody feels this way and then I thought about that and thought but if they do they're deluded and I'm the only one who's right. Then I thought about that. I thought, my God, how terrible. They probably would think I'm deluded and they're right. You know, and that put us into a good fix. Now haven't we all felt that way really? It's a natural understanding of self. So you see, in attempting to analyze cosmic illumination. We are always dealing with that portion of our personality at this particular time which has decided what is so vitally important as against everybody else. And it's so sure that we have suffered more, have been more agonized. You know how when we're young this always seems romantic. We play our records in order to help ourselves weep and beat our breasts and feel sorry for ourselves. Or we do it in any other way.

There's this glamour to misery, this glamour in relation to this masochistic beating on the breast or dust and ashes. And although when we're children we We can't help it because by the very spirit of the age we're in, we can't help at times at least suddenly finding ourselves in a universe of magic. But you know, it's a curious thing. You have some people who deliberately block out all the ecstasies in childhood, even the most miserable of childhoods.

They block out the ecstasy of playing games, of daydreaming, of the discovery of a new idea, of the ecstasy of a book, of the ability to handle the body in the magical way. Don't you all remember some ecstasy when you decided you're going to jump, and by God you made it?

Or played hopscotch and found you had such gorgeous control that you didn't step in the middle of a line or something like that you know this is control and there's this fabulous extraordinary ecstasy and some of us have a tendency to forget the ecstasy of the various things we suddenly found we knew that we might suddenly be able to sing a song that we've been practicing to us by ourselves or listening to. And the ecstasy of that, I remember when I discovered I could sing April Showers. I thought I was the most brilliant, magical glory that God had ever created. I was so enthralled and incidentally I was and am for the point is so huge. We are these uniquenesses and we have forgotten how true these experiences are. You know it I so often like to remind you of what Jesus said, except you become as a little child. You shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven. And yet what is it? Certainly it isn't to have any of the wildness, the untamed, undisciplined, or immature aspects. The reference is to that freedom of spirit, to experience ecstasy because of a new control and I have never seen it experienced more intensely than in a child whether that child was myself or is myself or you or any other child except those of us who insist on remaining children and I hope we all do I hope we all do in that sense so the this ecstasy of gaining control after control, ability to handle situations that we couldn't, ability to walk when before we were falling. Have you ever watched the expression on infants who are taking their first steps towards their mothers or fathers across the room, have you ever watched the expression? Have you seen the rapture and the happiness and the pride and the joy and the everythingness, you know, that just melts a heart? And but naturally children forget their rapture and ecstasy of taking those first steps. But what is it that has given it to them?

They have overcome a limitation. Isn't that so? They have overcome the limitation of gravity in learning how to walk. Clumsy as it is, everybody thinks it's beautiful, and it is. It's ecstatically beautiful. And the rapture, the mother and the daddy and every relative or sisters and brothers, they lift them up and they praise them to the high skies. This is encouragement. It's recognition and encouragement. The expression, you should all pay more attention to the expressions on the faces of infants and very, very small children in order to try to rediscover the principle of the joy of overcoming a limitation and then we would be in a better position to understand what cosmic illumination truly involves as against the fairy tales we'd like to believe in which are also beautiful all fairy tales are lovely but truth is really more ecstatic in the long run when we know how to respond to it properly and there's the ecstasy of discovering what is keeping us from developing a particular ability to discover just what it is in us that has to be strengthened or changed and instead of reacting with this idea that heaping sackcloth and ashes are beating our breasts and listening to the morbid music as an emphasis on the idea that mine you know is the most intense reaction to sorrow mine is the most miserable life, mine is the most horrible state of affairs, and secretly in some secret place not really being able to believe that others react the same or perhaps an even stronger measure, you know, we give lip service to it because we want to sound real intelligent and large and philosophical and objective. So we say, well I know other people have a worse time. But do you notice our reactions? Now smile. This is the secret of true cosmic illumination.

Because when a grown-up watches this child absolutely enraptured, you know, this is godlike, giving its first unaided steps towards its objective, like walking towards the mother, the father, or something it might want to touch and investigate, usually with smashings of course. That's part of the idea of what happens when we're young. When we see the attitude and the reaction of this little bit of a child we should realize that in actuality even when we are apparently adult in our physical bodies it is in being able to hold this joyousness and this ecstasy in overcoming a limitation it's in being able to feel this pride. Now I'm not talking about the negative, immature levels of pride. I'm talking about the pride of accomplishment that is able to feel, I have done a good work here. I pray God I will be able to continue to do it that way. There's the humility, but yet with the recognition of an accomplishment. If we cannot recognize an accomplishment in ourselves, how are we going to be objective enough to also recognize a weakness that needs strengthening or changing? And if we are unable to recognize a weakness within ourselves which needs change how are we going to be able to see that in us which is really beautiful adorable lovable and recognize that on the whole all of us are growing as the child in this adorable manner you see our problem the thing that blocks cosmic illuminations on the different levels because now we're going to get more to these different levels the things that block cosmic illuminations from us on these different levels really are involved with the fact that we are unable very often at least sometimes most of the time sometimes part of the time we are unable to acknowledge to ourselves some of the weaknesses we still have that is really in our heart of hearts we're unable to we may give it lip service I hear plenty of people say well this and that is wrong with me only to make sure that other people say oh you're mistaken this is right with you haven't you noticed it in other words it's merely a yearning heart crying for acknowledgement that it's okay and it uses its own little weaknesses which blocks it from the illuminations that help to enlarge the consciousness and then we have those who must exaggerate some of their very excellent qualities because they can't believe in their secret heart of hearts that anyone would think they're excellent unless they really blow it up big as a balloon you see and this again is a poignant part of consciousness we We often call it inferiority.

But again, it blocks true cosmic illumination because no illumination is a true illumination, which one might call a true initiation into the next stage of consciousness. And there are stages upon stages. No illumination is a true illumination that doesn't include a recognition recognition of some immaturity, some blindness, some prejudice, some inability that we have had.

And that doesn't see the potential of the expansion that will now take place with this recognition and then following this star of a greater selfhood. Now by recognizing this limitation, you see, the important thing is to recognize it not in the way of heaping ashes on our head, because that turns itself into a repeat record then of what is often in modern psychology called masochism. And we hold ourselves in a situation that blocks real illumination. What is illumination? Think of the word. Illumination is throwing light upon, isn't it? Illumination is light. Light shineth in the darkness, but the darkness comprehendeth it not. See the idea of illumination? Illumination is throwing light into darkness, and light into darkness really means light into our own nature we will find God nowhere else except inside ourselves but in the finding we will discover God is inside of everything the entire universe there's nothing that isn't in God and that would include everything you disapprove of and I know it's a rough thing to say, gosh you mean he or she is inside God? You know it's impossible to believe some of the things they do. I agree with you. I sometimes have a tough time myself. I have to remind myself. Point is, but I know that it's so. And the reminder to myself because I know it from direct experience just practically it will not always but almost always because I know this I can step back a little and you know what chuckle just like we all gave a little smile just now and it's in the very chuckle that we're able to help release our own biases into to seeing more truly than we've done.

I know it's very difficult to think of, for example, a Hitler or a Stalin or any of the hate groups that teach hatred by whatever rationalization. It's very difficult to think of any of these as being inside of God, but the point is, in true occult training, we do have to come to this recognition. There can be nothing that's outside.

There's one universe, there's one universal self. One and one alone is He.

It's told us in the Bible and is taught over and over in all of the esoteric mysteries. One and one alone is he, and actually of course some of us object to that. It should be he dash she, and the real original name does include that, that he dash she. In other words, that, you know, our eastern brethren try to call it that to get away from putting gender on the idea of the the all-inclusiveness of God, or the absolute. And there isn't anything that can be that isn't in this one all-inclusiveness. So then we've gotten thrown into the problems of trying to excuse God for the evil.

And, you know, we fall over backwards trying to make excuses for God. And I think it's rather charming, if we love God that we try to excuse God even though a little insolent to say the least but there's a charm about it it at least it does show that we want to be able to prove that the fact that all things are inside the one life the universal self that there's a good reason for the things that we call evil. But then in the work of esoteric training, we are guided to start recognizing the difference between what we call evil and what we call immaturity, and that's where the tarot, you see, becomes so vitally important.

Because the entire major tarot pack, these symbolic keys were designed by adepts who knew consciousness inside out, outside in, and in all directions. And symbolic representations were made in order to help stir our own awareness and awakening. We all know that the human consciousness deals in pictorial images. And as we learn to focus on the pictorial image, and as we are taught to meditate in and through pictorial images, we become aware of those things that we were we're not aware of before and isn't this illumination you see we keep thinking of cosmic illumination as being one grand sweep of everythingness which it can be but this one grand sweep of everythingness includes the step-by-step illuminations that we did not recognize as such and so some people have gotten the idea that cosmic illumination is just something suddenly you're going to get by the grace of God without doing anything but just wanting it or by listening to some teacher tell you just forget everything you just meditate on me you know and you'll get it that way or just give up all your money and come to my monastery you know where I'll keep you in nice poverty so you can prove you're spiritual you know that that you'll get it that way. You've heard all the various ways. And though those who receive spiritual riches should certainly support the area of that riches because you're in the world and you have to be supported to keep giving out. It takes money to give. But certainly we all know or have heard of the various groups who deliberately work on the yearnings and aspirations of others you know to try to get them to give up their own self-responsibility and say this way you're going to get cosmic illumination because I'll wash out your karma and or I will you know and I will pervade you with my cosmic illumination and so on and these partial truths are very dangerous to aspirants but I guess some people have to fall for the nonsense and learn that nobody really can hand you the gift of anything could uh the infant you once were when you first took your first step by yourself could that have been conferred upon you by just the desire to walk or did you have to use your own muscles fall get up fall get up before you had control of your body at the point of walking no matter how clumsy it was those first steps nobody can confer on you gratis or for free. And in this period especially, people are searching for that free gift of cosmic illumination, that free gift of release from pain, that free gift of no more problems. I walk with my head in the clouds, the stars as my crown, and I never have a problem again. And there's this erroneous idea of cosmic illumination as including no problems. Now as I said maybe I shouldn't tell you this, maybe I should make you think there are no problems till you got there. But really to get there properly what we have to do is change our entire mental emotional attitude towards the problem itself. And And this is the secret of attaining illumination after illumination.

And it's the secret of reacting in an utterly different manner to the bigger and better problems we achieve as masters of wisdom. You see the idea now? It isn't the problem. For example, let's get something that we're all aware of, right, in everyday life. Some of us could be presented with some type of problem like for example figuring out the income tax how's that for a good one and we'll throw a fit others love mathematics are familiar with the income tax laws and rules and regulations and they sit down and have a ball did you know that CPAs do they don't only do it for themselves they do it for others. I know a multi-millionaire who's a trained tax attorney also. He wouldn't dream. He has many other attorneys on his staff, taxmen, with all his many organizations. He wouldn't dream of letting anyone else do his income tax. He has a ball. He loves, he just loves figuring out every last thing he can deduct legally and he's a very honorable man it's a game it's a game to him it is a game if he has to pay more or less he might fuss but he's certainly not gonna go hungry you know as a multi-millionaire here is a game that he has and yet to some of us it's a nightmare isn't it now here's the same problem but look at the difference in the way it could be treated and then we have the areas in between let's take cooking a meal now there are some here who have a ball cooking a meal others would have a nervous breakdown trying it isn't that right some of us have good reasons for the nervous breakdown when we think to see what the results are. Maybe others ought to learn how to have a nervous breakdown.

If they think what they're giving you is edible, and there's something to kill us off fast, who with more rapid ulcers or what have you, liver damages. So again, there's this lack of knowledge of how to use powers even though we might be enjoying them. So say you love to cook, but you don't know how to give proper nutrition you wreck yourself and everybody else physically and one might then develop a hatred for cooking and is it that there's anything wrong with cooking no it's that not enough knowledge went into combining creativity with really nurturing the body instead of destroying it, if step by step or all at once. It all depends. You know, most of us in occultism develop pretty tender digestive systems, and on the whole we can wonder if people are deliberately trying to destroy us, you know, and yet it's delicious. So you see, problems can be many things and we will react as differently to the problem as we have learned to control that situation or problem or as we consider it a problem or not.

So the Master has pointed out more than once that it isn't that they have no problems and, And, you know, he has a good sense of humor. You can't be in the upper echelons of cosmic awareness without a sense of humor. In fact, that's part of true growth. But he has pointed out that the only difference there really is this, that the things we consider problems are to them like children, clumsy children raising a hoopla. Maybe like the adolescent saying the world's coming to an end because he can't drive the car family car you know consider it in that category and you know the adolescent's going to figure it's life and death but you know what the adult thinks so that's what the adult should think if he doesn't a little severity and discipline is a part of all of growth in its proper usage and area so you have your specific point of view and you cannot uh really according to the Master R and all who've had illuminations in the various levels, you cannot really wreck your own full growth process if you are going to want to hold on to an idea that one magic snap of a finger is going to relieve from problems.

For instance, death doesn't relieve you of problems. You know, a lot of people figure, I want to die, and then I'll be through with my problems. But if you can't die, how is it going to get rid of your problems? As a matter of fact, on the astral planes, whatever really serious problem we have with our soul is bigger and better. So maybe you better not want to die so fast. Solve the problem here. That's why we're here. Then when we die we will be in a position of greater freedom to serve our own growth and the growth of humanity and experience the raptures and ecstasies that are there but they're also here.

Why wait to go somewhere else? Here is where it's easiest. So why figure when I drop my body I'll be through of this problem with this problem or that the only problem we'll be through with when we drop our physical vehicles is the problem of digestion on the physical plane and the problem of earning a living in a physical plane manner and yet we will be doing the same thing in another way because to the degree we have recognized what true assimilation is, spiritual assimilation, assimilation of experience, and used it to feel rich and filled, to the degree that we bring to our own awareness here, to the degree we bring to our own awareness, the recognition that control of that which is a problem to us here and recognition of its transiency and of the inevitability of its leaving, that is whatever the condition is of the moment, and developing into the next experience, whatever that experience would be. The ability to stop identifying our true souls, our eternal selfhood, our true consciousness, with the experiences of the physical plane which are centered into an area of the ego and the misinterpretations of life and experience and the need to sigh or moan or grown in order to get away from whatever we think is a problem to the degree we've held on to these emotionally depressive states fearsome states to that degree are we still going to have it there because we don't change just by the act of dying and we don't change by the act of having a cosmic illumination. Cosmic illumination comes because something in our personality has grown up from a younger to an older. Cosmic illumination comes because we have mastered something, like the infant learning how to walk, remember? The pride and the joy. Because we've mastered, you'd say an inferiority complex at least in one area instead of wondering gee is so-and-so tearing me apart and is so-and-so tearing me apart thinking gosh I love so-and-so they look like they need encouragement you know in other words it's an inside out reaction of the very heart that doesn't have to think well I will do the kind thing instead of being concerned with other people thinking we're so marvelous. There's an automatic, this is real, cosmic awareness, incidentally, that brings us to a liberation of being slave to personality levels, where the personality then becomes our channel instead of ourselves being tossed from pillar to post by the weaknesses which all personalities inevitably have. The reality then of true illumination and the sturdiness of it and the stability and reliability of it has to do with our wanting to recognize, smile at, and transmute, gain control over those portions of our nature which are not very mature or which are very immature or which are very unbeautiful even. It is being willing to say there's no fast way by the snap of the finger. And besides, I am an eternal being, marching and growing and expanding from level to level through level and level, by looking at my experiences, reacting properly, and feeling the happiness of my opportunities to grow because what other ecstasy is there really think for a moment a person wants a million dollars I don't know how many millionaires you've known I've known a few does that bring happiness not that we're against money remember but there's a difference between having money that you just use and realize is a transient thing and having yourself so dedicated to money as the thing that will solve all problems that you become materialistic in your attitudes and reactions and in this era we're being hammered by that on all sides you can't turn on your radio or TV without that you know we have to watch ourselves these are the tests and trials for us nor do we extol poverty as a virtue has nothing to do with it it's the attitude it's the attitude no one can be rich who isn't rich in spirit and a person can be a billionaire and if they're poor in spirit they're the most poverty stricken insecure human beings on earth and if you're rich in spirit it you might have to carefully adjust your weekly amount of money or monthly amount of money but you're rich and when you're rich like that you never want this is the truth and this is real cosmic illumination in discovering this we're able to start freeing ourselves from many other They're false feelings, assumptions, and concentrations that we hold.

Remember, this is not extolling poverty.

It is seeing. Now, being able to see a thing properly is part of whatever illumination you've already had. And all illumination is cosmic because, after all, you live in the cosmos, don't you? You're part of the heavens.

You're a child of the stars.

What else can you be? Everything is inside the one God, the one life, in its different stages of self-awareness and perceptions. And that's you. You're rich. Reread that pattern on the trestle board. You'll see what we mean again. Pay particular attention to the portions that mention this. You're rich but you do not gain riches of any real security anything you really take with you except you recognize at first and train yourself into it like the infant once that infant proudly and happily discovers control of its little adorable clumsy limbs in walking without hanging on for the first time then And little by little, it gains control. And after a while, it's running so that you're wondering whether it's such a good idea.

You know, crawling up into all kinds of things that we don't want them in. You know, all the problems and the things we deliberately get into as we're learning without recognizing the consequences until we get the repercussions. So every pain we have, every sorrow, every problem, We will recognize this as riches to the degree that we have achieved insight and it takes help. That's why the tarot symbolism is used. You get this in the lessons through the mail where step Step by step, your own consciousness is shown to you in a gentle, loving, tender manner. And you are continuously invited to learn how to differentiate between the personality which you're growing up as your own child, it is your infant, and your true self which is growing it. To learn to trust in the guidance of that overall, all because any aspirant will always be guided exactly right which doesn't mean it will be exactly as they wanted it to come out at the moment but they will see it as exactly right in the long run with the extra joy and ecstasy of accomplishment that joyous ability why I can walk on my own now and to the degree we learn this we also learn our relationship to each other In other words, every step of control that we can make over our own personality, our thinking, our feeling, which the tarot symbolism helps us to make and instructs us to do, to that degree do we expand outwards more in our understanding and comprehension of others.

And then we usually reach a point where we are going from one stage to another you know there are always these slowdown periods and then suddenly a burst we reach a point then when suddenly we have a burst of illumination and it is the result of the controlling conditions previously, becoming aware and getting control of and directing. In other words, attaining to our rulership in the cosmos, which is our destiny.

It is our destiny. It is your destiny. Now then, to look at a problem as something that that is an initiation in terms of joy, training, ability to take care of a certain amount of energy and work, and then expand it into the larger area of selfhood.

This is the secret of opening ourselves to these illuminations.

And as I said, we do not have just one. We have illumination after illumination, as we work for it. And we discover, finally, that the great difference between a high adept and even more so a master and those who are still aspiring towards this is that of the different outlook we have on problems. Again, on problems. Could you please try to hold this in mind. The way we look at any problem, whether it be the problem of having an alcoholic husband or wife, whether it be the problem of having a husband or wife who seems to be rejecting us, whether it be the problem of feeling tied by what for whatever reason to other people who we feel we should not be tied to, whether it be the problem of being unable to let go of of those that we think we ought to let go of, whether it be the problem of not being able to get the kind of work that we think we ought to have, whether it be the problem of not being able to have the proper relationships that we think we should have with our children or mothers or fathers or sisters or brothers or lovers and friends, one or any of them, no matter what we think these problems are, this we should know every problem we have is the gift of our own higher soul to ourselves that we have made like the infant makes the problem of falling and bruising because it wants to learn to control itself and walk like big people can you see this if you can see this you've taken the most extraordinary and major step towards the ability to change everything in your life. You can walk in magic practically all the time. I do. You can see that heaven is on earth most of the time, not all the time. Even the Masters don't all the time. I told you we We get bigger and better problems as adepts, and the Masters even more so.

But we see them differently. And though we may be in a very uncomfortable state of mind and heart temporarily, deep inside we know what the real truth is.

And we cannot be pulled down or destroyed.

We know this is the exercise for the next step. And it's our responsibility towards the rest of those who are with us in the one life.

And so we make a joke out of problems instead of making everybody around us miserable.

And we make a joke and we learn how to chuckle enough at ourselves so that we start to laugh with ourselves and therefore with God like we do at the child in its clumsiness as it's learning to take those first steps by itself we start seeing ourselves and others in the same way and then how can bitterness how can hurt how can vengefulness remain in a heart that knows that this is the the clumsiness of youth. Not that we don't give people plenty good spankings if they need it. This is part of the recognition. Anytime my little girl is going to break up my delicate china when she's been told not to, you know, she should get a spanking to learn. But it isn't the spanking of hate and lost temper. Life has the disciplines like the bruises the baby gets. But in essence, every problem you have had and have is your gift from yourself which is one with the divine and in the way you look at it is the secret of how quickly you will grow beyond it and when you see the real reason for this particular problem you will have an expansion of consciousness in that particular insight and awareness you will have a softening of heart as well as a strengthening of soul and you will start understanding other people better because you understood your own better and you will start lifting and ballooning out towards deity in a mightier manner and this is possible for everyone here the Tarot of course is a a vital part of the day-by-day self-transmutation. So please keep with your tarot and notice how you're going to walk in infinite golden sun, even with a problem. That's the point.

Isn't that the real difference? To be able to stay ecstatically happy despite a problem because of knowing who and what you are, or letting yourself get pulled down into the muck wouldn't you say that's the biggest difference to know you're walking and expanding your own consciousness in with and through God and therefore helping all life and playing a real part in the cosmic evolution as against being one of the drags which we all are at times then I figure if I feel sorry for other people because they're in the cycle of being a drag maybe they'll help pull me up when I'm being a drag isn't that the way to feel and believe me life can be so rich and beautiful we awaken to subtleties we never knew you cannot describe color to a person who's never seen nor sound to a person who's never heard no more can you describe the rapture you can walk in in the midst of problems except you try the method we have been attempting to give you and remember help you have in and through those of us who serve you so lovingly and faithfully and we're talking about serving I hope those of you who have a voice are not going to forget. I'm willing to even help you develop a mild guilt complex. Afterwards though we'll try to help you transmute it out because we don't want to hang on to these things in order to get the job done. But darling, I'm telling a special message from Master R to you.

Very unusual forces are playing in and through the planet, in fact the whole solar system, at their most intense point somewhere around between 10 and 12 o'clock tonight. It's already with us now. I hope you've been feeling some of it. But this particular energy you see there are times when it's easier for a breeze to blow in one direction than in another and during certain energy focus points it's easier to pour down ideas and help inculcate into the mass mind consciousness of humanity on planet earth various ideas that are the seeds that will grow eventually depending on the rate of growth of the soil of the souls involved and we have a very special focal point taking place within that two-hour period though it's already in motion and will continue these things usually last anywhere from 48 to 36 six hours you know the area of power but there's always a focal point of its most intense which will be uh tonight at that time now uh the master r requests that tonight somewhere between 10 and 12 our time each and every one of you uh either sit down quietly at home or if you meditate best in a lying down position provided you don't fall asleep that way that you do a special meditation not for yourself in other words sit down and say this meditation is for mother nature for the soul of the earth for the weeping hearts that need extra help and strength for the ignorant ones that need extra light whatever I do or don't have personally I relinquish any personal gain at the moment for the privilege of concentrating at least for this period and whatever period you're able to concentrate different people have different levels and then breathing deeply in and out as I've instructed you to do regularly image yourselves as being like an oval aura of light around planet earth feeding it nurturing it with extra strength and the master r says they will be able to go from there because it's your concentrated feeding with your imagery into the planet Earth that will help give them the amount of energy they will need as an aid to focus some new seed of perception more readily into the mind of the race and perhaps we'll be able to see results within our lifetime I hope so we do this regularly whenever whenever the energies are right, in order to help the evolution of humanity in the many ways that we do.

Of course, on Thursday nights, I've been describing some of the things we do at times in our sleep for this very same purpose. So would you all please, if you can, tonight between 10 and 12, do this special work with that idea in mind. This is not for me. It is for all. All. You remember though that doesn't exclude you. Please keep that in mind. It's just that you're more willing to concentrate for the all at this point instead of any concentration for self at all, for the all. But you are part of that all and you will also get it and some of you will be very surprised, very surprised indeed at what experiences will come to you.

Thank you.
