The title of our talk for this morning is Creativity, Secret of Divine Love.

And the Tarot key is, as you see, Tarot key number three, the Empress, assigned to the Hebrew letter Daleth, which means door, amongst many of its other meanings. that is the specific.

Now the extraordinarily beautiful reading from the Bible which our beloved Frater Reverend Jacob gave us actually, as I think you can see, referred very, very much to this particular Tarot key because along with the meaning of door that is involved with the letter here. We also have the pair of opposites assigned to this particular key, the pair of opposites being wisdom and folly.

And you remember the stress there was on understanding and wisdom in this particular reading. And I'd like you to note on the Qabalistic Tree of Life of dollars the Empress connects wisdom the divine father aspect or since fear of activity of the Tree of Life to understanding the Divine Mother aspect on the Tree of Life with its activity so that we have here in the empress and its pair of opposites called wisdom and folly we have here that which is the combining that which is the union between yod hey vah hey the father and elohim the mother and indeed in genesis you will recall it is yod hey vah hey elohim that said let us make man in our image image remember imaging let us make man in our image after our likeness and we have here in the Empress the symbolic representation of what is involved in imaging what is involved in imaging when in duplicating of the likeness we have then creativity true creativity and of course what i want us to see is that it is the secret of divine love if we have not yet seen it and if we have i want us to experience it and if we've already experienced that i want us to experience it more deeply so we all have something to receive if we can attune ourselves together more intimately into the principles of this key now when you're hey-ho hey Elohim said let us make man which remember he said let us make man which is let us make Adam or generic humanity in our image.

We have here the declaration of a principle started right in Genesis which was not true once upon a time, nor will it just become true someday. It is a complete statement of the way creativity takes place. Now this is a statement of the way creativity takes place, not just once when the world got started or the firmament was separated from the firmament, nor something we can hope for or look forward to. We have here one of the most profound secret of secrets given very completely and openly. if we only knew how to comprehend it in its fullness, how to see the knowledge and the wisdom that's contained therein, how to recognize the true secret of secrets. Because as we know by now, all of the true occult training continuously points out to us that creativity all creativity takes place via consciousness consciousness is certainly known to be the causative factor for anything and everything and certainly by now we all know we all should be understanding realizing that everything that we call physical everything we think of as being material everything that we experience as being solid is still exactly what we've just been been talking about the not only just the result of this process of creativity taking place via consciousness but actually is one of the ways in which consciousness presents to itself the image and likeness of its creative processes or self-duplications now of course we all run into the problem and this is true consistently when if we want to take and work out this principle into larger areas or other areas when we say do you mean to say that that ugly thing out there or that horrible person there is a self-duplication of that process.

And, you know, I'll agree with you, it's pretty hard.

It's pretty hard sometimes to be able to feel its reality, let alone admit to the fact that that is so.

But, of course, we're interpreting in ways other than, shall we say, the Lord of the Universe would interpret, because each person interprets everything in terms of their own understanding and comprehension.

And if someone came from another planet who had the kind of senses that could not experience anything beyond the most infinitesimally small, all and that being or the group of beings from say this other planet proceeded to study what forms are like on this planet if that being or those beings studying what forms are like on this planet and yet limited by what they are able to perceive with their eyes here with their ears touch with with their fingertips, limited that way, if they had that kind of seeing that we have now with an extension of our seeing that would, can be thought of as the use of an electron microscope, such beings would not see us as we appear to each other. such beings would only see portions of what we call our bodies they would have no way of knowing incidentally through an electronic microscope experience of us they would have no way of knowing that each particular atom say or each particular molecule is actually very completely completely tied up with the other molecules in a very special field, which is experienced by us as something very solid.

Because, you see, we wouldn't even be solid to them if these beings had consciousnesses that were, and therefore vehicles in harmony with that consciousness, that could not see or sense beyond the infinitesimally small, like the smallest atom or smaller even say than the atom but even if it was just slightly larger in that area you see they wouldn't even know we exist they would go through us maybe they'd be zooming through us and all kinds of vehicles that they built and the atoms between us would be wide open spaces where they'd be afraid of getting lost between stars you ever come to think of that so So what is physical?

You see, we experience things as being physical, and we're not saying that they are unreal. But I'm just trying to point out to you that when in Qabalah we say to you, everything that exists, including that which we experience as physical, material, solid, everything that exists is really consciousness and the result of consciousness furthermore remember yo hey hey Elohim which is father mother God said let us make man in our image so we can also go on to say that everything we see and experience is a self duplication or replication For example, the seed of a tree, of an ash tree, will grow only an ash tree. It will not grow an elm or a fir tree. It will duplicate its own selfhood.

And the seed of wheat, you notice in the Tarot key we have this marvelous ripe growing wheat. the seed of wheat will not grow tears as mentioned in the Bible which means which is the same thing or similar to a bunch of weeds in a way they'll remember weeds are just something we haven't found a use for but at any rate if we haven't found a use for them they just they clog us up so you can at least temporarily take that meaning but the seed of this of this ripe wheat when planted will grow wheat it will not grow the tares it will not grow it will not grow another kind of of plant, whatever it is. A little cat will not give birth to dogs, just simply will not. It will always give birth to kittens, in other words, self-duplication. Let us make cats after our own image, you might say, although it's not so different from the vast universal consciousness, not at all.

It's just an aspect we see here.

and so when we come then to think of ourselves in man let us make man we have an indication that whatever it is we are experience or whatever portion or whatever appears uh limited certainly whatever it is we experience is physical it apparently is self-duplication since our image and likeness has to do with exactly that self-duplication we know that out of the single cell of a female and the single cell of a male let them get together like here on the tree of life you notice fire the path of the Empress dollop which means the door we have the cosmic father wisdom and the cosmic mother understanding getting together there they are the sign of union and indeed if you'll notice the path coming down the middle from the crown to beauty the high priestess that's the one we took up the last Sunday my Sunday which was the second Sunday of the month you notice that was the previous Tarot Key number two which is a sign to subconsciousness and more so to the full principle of subconsciousness and I would like to remind you that that also is called the path of unity.

Unity. So that the Empress or the door or creativity crosses the path of unity. Again, telling us Kabbalistically. And remember, only when we know it Kabbalistically do we know it at all, since the Bible is written by the trained adepts, prophets, masters of Qabalah. we can see then that unity has to do with creativity.

Furthermore, it's the unity of the masculine-feminine principles or aspects that self-duplicates itself.

So when you have the masculine and the feminine principle coming together in unity, what you have then is the receiving into subconsciousness which is symbolized by the high priestess through its unity.

But then what happens? That's when the empress comes into action because the empress is the development of that seed.

And how does it develop?

Via self-duplication and multiplication because from these two cells, they I'm sure you're all familiar enough with the way embryos grow and this is just as true of the fruit on it on a tree that is growing fruit enough plenty of nuts you know the human tree which perhaps is the right thing to do after all we have to have all kinds of fruits and all kinds of nuts we'd get very bored if we didn't but at any rate we do have the representation of self-duplication so that within the womb and remember the door, which is the meaning of this letter, also is referred to the womb, or the door to the womb, because the coming in of the seed comes into the door of the womb, that which grows it, and then the birth, it comes out from the door of the womb. And this again is true of anything and everything that is born, and we're thinking of it in terms of something physical, not realizing that that which is without is that is from results from that which is within that which is below is as that which is above even on the entire tree of life it is said of the one the only the indivisible ahead of the crown that that that the one and the only the crown is in malkuth the kingdom the physical universe as malkuth or the kingdom is in the one the crown but in a different way so even here on the entire tree of life we're being told that the one the only the lord of the universe the indivisible the one divine will the one creator of the the capital C, is as that which we think of as being the kingdom, Malkuth, the physical universe, but in a different way.

And what is it that is different?

It is the way we experience the reality. Let's show it in another manner. when the sun is shining and we walk out in the garden or on the street and we feel the rays of the sun upon us warm and golden and lovely is that sun separate from the sun that we see in the heavens yet we are not experiencing it in the same way at all the sun in the heavens is something very other in its even in its detailed aspects than the Sun that we experience walking on earth because when we experience it has been multiplied in various strange ways coming through the various levels of our atmospheric areas is on earth until finally when it is touching us it is something very warm and loving and nothing could exist in the conditions of this planet without the sun you know and you heard me say often we really live inside the sun it just looks to us like it's outside because we're looking at the core of the sun and thinking of it as being something separate but can you separate the ray from the Sun just try to in your mind just in your imagination it's impossible really if you're going to be experiencing the warm Sun at all that in itself is this evidence that it is continuous through that which looks like open space through that which looks like atmosphere it is continuous right to the heart of this uh of the core of the sun that we see and experience in the heavens continuous in the same way that which we experience on the physical plane that which we experience as solid is continuous with the divine mind or the divine consciousness or the cosmic mind stuff whichever way you like to put it but the cosmic mind stuff that has been held in or that is being held in a certain area of creativity remember the high priestess is a movement a development from that which has been started in the imaging if we want to again see it very rapidly through the tarot series as we've started it we are just a very condensed idea we can see the fool tarot key zero say a super consciousness which is looking towards the goal above setting its goal i want i desire i aspire i yearn that's the goal you know whether it seems like a lowly evolved one or a highly evolved one the manner what happens afterwards will indicate how high or low it is in each center of consciousness but anyway that is the goal that's that in order to bring the goal into being super consciousness then has to descend into the valley and actually then the magician key number one represents in some ways the descent because it is concentration it is not a different consciousness you understand it is the same The same consciousness, this time now, having set a goal, moved itself into an area, concentrating, giving attention.

And remember, the magician is also called the pair of opposites, life and death. That which we give attention to is real for us. It's our livingness. That which we don't is death. We don't pay attention. It doesn't even exist for us. So life and death. In a way, you can almost say existence and nonexistence. So we have that attention. and you notice on the magician's table you'll see it up above there we have the tools and notice what are those tools on the magician's table that is on the table of self-consciousness those four symbols have to do with one will, which we can think of that is the will to go somewhere like the goal of the fool then the next is imagination once you set the will you have to then figure out in your mind how am i going to get there now that is creativity right there the use of the imagination has to start because how why because you have to image the moment you are imaging you are creating no matter what the image is it doesn't matter at all this is being creative even if say if you say all right all i want to do is go across the street you have to image what across the street you've made it something definite the moment you have and that's the use of the magician planting the seed into the high priestess and then it develops so from imagination you see has to come action without action you get nowhere absolutely nowhere because I could stand and say I want to go across there across the street and I could imagine it but if I stand there and don't take action am I going to get across the street no I'm not a lot of people a lot of occultists a lot of spiritual aspirants will sit down and they will image and image and image and then they'll say yeah it doesn't work or I don't know how to work it I've been imaging and imaging and imaging and if one asks well what have you been doing about it well what do you mean doing about it i've been having faith and imaging there you are and then they wonder why are they getting nowhere fast and right here on the magician's table the the four the very symbols tell us you have to get into action the lord of the universe is in is is very definitely an action as far as the active creativity is concerned very obviously everything is going in fact it's spinning around so much that sometimes i like to say no wonder we're all a bit dizzy we haven't gotten accustomed to that kind of spin it's action action and so and we have to know what kind of action to take you know i for example suppose i want to get there across the street now when it has to do with what kind of action just standing there and imaging i want to get across the street and i have faith i'm going to get across the street but what kind of action is necessary might i decide well now i don't want to have to walk everybody does that i want to fly so it's just i image myself flapping my arms and flying and flying am i going to get there no you'll say well why not well because because that is not self-duplication that is not working with the way the divine mind duplicates its its movements you have to always do things in harmony with the way or the principles in order to get there so that wanting to flap your arms by copying birds well birds haven't got arms you see they've got wings and if you want to delude yourself and say well my why can't my arms be wings well you can stand there and keep yourself frustrated and that's exactly what people do as a matter of fact and that's part of the reason so many people are miserable because they just go part way and then they decide it's either a lot of baloney or there's something wrong with their ability to utilize whereas they haven't really been doing the things that are necessary in order to accomplish so you see then not only do we have to have action we have to know what kind of action is in harmony with it and that's why it is wisdom and knowledge and what has the knowledge to do anything we want to be or do do. If we do not first research what has been recorded, what is already known about a thing, we certainly are not going to have the knowledge and therefore we're not going to be able to develop the wisdom. In other words, if I want to sew a dress, which incidentally I don't because I haven't got any talent for sewing, but I love sewing and I love the creativity, but God sort of missed out there and God was looking after other people at the time the sewing creativity part was given out you see but suppose I want to sew a dress now but I what I could do is sit down and say well after all I should be able to sew a dress all sorts of people that aren't as smart as I am I see them sewing dresses so let's see what do I need all right I'll take take action, I'll buy some material, yeah, and you say, yeah, thread, I guess you need thread, I guess you need a needle, and maybe a sewing machine even, I might get that, and I might sit and try looking, you're working the sewing machine, you know what'll happen to the sewing machine, because I did not go in for the action, that is, I did not research all the knowledge in this area, and do you think I'd ever get a dress? But I would have gone in for some action, but would it have been intelligent action?

Well, again, this seems a little silly. Everybody knows that. Well, but do we know it so much, really? Don't we make goals that are not in harmony with our training and then, although we make goals that aren't in harmony with our training, don't we often move into areas, jumping in where angels fear to tread, and then say, why didn't it work for me? Why didn't it work for me? If consciousness creates, why didn't I get it?

Well, sometimes when we're just halfway good, and say we were just a little half dizzy, and we researched it halfway intelligently, we'll manage some form of manifestation, but then because we didn't research it thoroughly, that is the knowledge of this particular kind of activity or creation, we'll find that not only did we get what we were imaging or creating but things that we hadn't bargained for and then after that i've known a lot of people they've become afraid to create you know i've often mentioned that woman who came to me for full of this intensity of uh of rapture and joy at the at the teaching the realization that she could do things about her life this creativity and she decided she knows her goals she wants a husband you remember and she she had a lot of ability so in no time at all she had every husband in the neighborhood chasing her she claimed with a mattress on his back you know that those were her words those were her words so So there again, you see, she hadn't done enough research into the ways and means, in other words, the geography, the path.

And that's the fantastic value, of course, of the tarot.

Because when we take it step by step and learn these principles, as we're taught to do with the tarot, and we really go to work on researching what the wisdom of the ages has held for us and has to give us, to teach us regarding all of these methods, these ways, these means when we do that we find that we become more and more adept first of all at choosing goals that are in harmony with our talents second of all and that has to do with the first with the will with these are the tools of our consciousness remember on that magician's table and then our imagination is able to go into the areas of self-duplication where they will be working accurately because they will be holding to the thought to the idea to the image to the fulfillment and they will be reese doing using the imagination even for researching things now how can I find out about the skull etc this is all part of the creative imagination for accomplishment and then the action part of of course, has to do also, remember, with buying the materials or getting into movement.

Also, action has to do with moving in whatever area is necessary to correct our own defects, those portions of us which are unfinished in our character, improving our character, beautifying our character. Because, you know, really, even Jesus said, call no man perfect. There's only one perfect and that's the Father which is in heaven. Of course that was before Reverend Jacob was incarnated.

But at that time it was true.

so we go into the activity and then remember the coin on the table of the magician is the actual manifestation and you know a coin is also something that we perhaps haven't come to think about as much as we should the coin could be a symbol of our riches riches or poverty as a matter of fact because money does represent how rich are you in one way except that i'm sure we've all known people a lot of money who are the most poverty stricken and vice versa still the coin does represent the idea of riches as a symbol and the final effect or the final experience really is that which gives us our riches our true riches our values and so we learn what to value and what not to value especially when we have created very peculiarly for a while which we We all do. You know, we often like to remind you that when children are first given a drawing pencil or paints, you know, the kind of mess they make is, you can call it unholy, if you like.

And it is. Well, that's the kind of mess the children of God make, as is obvious if we look around from this point of view, because one of the things we forget is that we, as children of God, are creating and we're learning how to create more effectively through experience in other words, here is our we have our palette in front of us and all the colors of the infinite universe you might say and we're learning how to draw and how to paint and some of the things we draw and paint would win a prize alright right but you know which kind of a prize you know the booby prize and that's because we still haven't become perfect creators yet we're in the process of learning dr. cases expression as you know which I've always loved green apples on this tree of life or you might say very inept artists or very we're just learning how to practice our scales we still go off tune you know when we try to play the piano or the organ or whatever musical instrument you know we're just as out of tune as we can be because we haven't practiced enough we haven't become adept enough or we've been kind of lazy and instead of getting in there and practicing when we should we've gone we've just sort of gone off and and lazily let our minds go hither thither and yon we haven't pointed our attention the attention of the magician to the goal we've let it sort of slip sloppily all over the place and then wonder why our life is slip slop you know and then we figure oh there's an it's so unjust just i've never heard anyone why should i suffer so instead of realizing i am not using my practice periods to become of the perfect divine artist for god with god through god that's one of the ways of putting it all right now let's look at some more of these symbols here on the empress so that we together can understand its use and see better what is meant by gift of divine love because we want to be able to see our creativity as the gift of divine love which it is instead of it being what it is too often to two-penny of us something that looks like a very definite creation of the most demoniacal demon incarnate because we have experiences like that little realizing that it's our own inability to create that we are the ones that are sort of taking the clay and making it into such warped shapes because we have not yet learned how to be a beautiful rapturous it's not for nothing that beauty is assigned to adam generic humanity i mean it's one there's more than one reason uh which is also remember the perfected christ consciousness when we have become perfected and we have to perfect ourselves we have to do the practicing then everything that we create all All our creativity will be crowned with these stars of heaven, with the beauty of that central aspect of the tree of life.

And you might say all of us, as children of God, some of us still awkward in our walking, some of us still awkward in our talking, but all of us in a type of school centers of consciousness we're all learning how to create but how to create beauty please never forget that it is beauty we are learning to create beauty on the qabalistic tree of life that means christ consciousness or it means perfected redemption or means the divinely how to divinely beget ourselves from the divine begetting and as much else in that area as we can bring our consciousness to shape so here with the Empress we have this crown the crown of 12 stars that's being worn remember that stands for the 12 signs of the zodiac our creative imagination or our ability to make images in our minds and incidentally everybody has it everybody you think you don't then you don't really realize what consciousness is there isn't a single human being on the face of the earth who is who fails to make images and he'll I'll prove it to you when you're looking at me right I hope you are at the moment look at me if you're not all right now you're seeing me whoever whatever I am and now but what is really happening you every one of you are making an image in your consciousness and that image you're making in your consciousness is the result of whatever interpretation your consciousness is making of the impact of the reflection of light and whatever the point is you're seeing me is something each of you have and are doing in a different way one or two of you might be saying gee i prefer her with her hair up so you're not seeing me as being something as attractive as, say, my gorgeous frotter Jacob here, who, bless his heart, this is one of the many marvelous things about the masculine principle, you know.

Once it really loves you, you can't be unbeautiful.

You know, remember that, girls.

It's marvelous. That's what I call true divine capacity for experiencing beauty. and the male has it very readily when he loves the feminine principle when he loves his woman a woman has to train herself to do this more though there are other things she's able to experience more readily and together of course we get perfection now this imaging then you see even that which we look upon outside whether it be a person or a thing a star a key it's still it is all the image inside so you see every one of you know how to image or you wouldn't know how to see you wouldn't experience seeing and it is true of you know all the time when we realize that we'll stop uh you will stop giving ourselves nonsense suggestions like oh i'm not i'm not creative i hear people say they're not creative and i watch them create the most god-awful lives you ever saw and it takes real genius to have that many problems it takes a lot of image making and all kinds you know it does so so of course it all depends on just what it is we're creating now then the 12 signs of the zodiac are one of the things that are involved here in this imaging and it has has to do with the fact we're being told that our image-making powers are absolutely limitless the entire universe is at our command basically when we image properly but remember we have to image as god images or learn how to image you know in the image and likeness of god we were made and we're learning how to image so that god can have the perfect creating and creative experiences in and through us or those specialized aspects of us so here we have the entire universe really as our crown and you notice the heart here we have the indication of love and incidentally even the dove is a symbol of love because although the dove literally in one sense means peace and the holy spirit the dove is also the um bird of venus and venus in itself is symbol for love and venus is assigned to this tarot key so we have in this heart which is of the metal brass we have here another secret of positive creativity in order to be able to recognize and experience the divine love being behind it and what is involved basically well in essence when we train ourselves to see these powers to image to be aware as being the gifts of God and actually being developed for God this is the only way we really develop an ability to be with the divine will what what we do is is recognize the fact then that one of the first and most important things we have to do is to improve our love nature.

Because, you see, we cannot create and experience an environment that is full of loving fulfillment unless we have a love nature that is able to make proper images in harmony with divine love. How could we? you see we always in our image and likeness has to do with many other things if i were filled with hate my images automatically would be hate-ridden images and therefore i would keep experiencing out of my environment because it is a continuation whether we see that first cause or not all things on the outer are a continuation of the creativity of consciousness and incidentally it is that which we hold our attention on consistently this is what brings the manifestations the more consistently we hold our attention on something or idea the more powerful that's why there's the the life and death on attention, the magician, the more powerful is the creative imagery.

And this consistency, keeping our attention on this goal, involves, remember, all of the other elements. So what is it that we have to learn to see in order to experience, to not only experience the divine love, but to learn how to be an experiencing center center for the divine love. First of all, by utilizing the tarot keys, as we're taught to do here through the work, through the lessons, we are able, because of the impact of these images, we are able to start changing the way we use our creativity. Because I just pointed out, we don't have to develop creativity. God made us in such a way as the image and likeness we have it. what we have to learn to do is to harmonize our creativity with the divine creativity and then it will have its uniqueness which is our own uh this is our own special gift either god's gift to us or us to god either way is correct incidentally and don't think for one moment that we can't give god gifts the gift of everything we image everything we do and feel when it especially when we have learned to keep it harmonious is our gift to god because it is the one lord of the universe experiencing it in and through us now then with lovingness nothing nothing at all that we work on for creating is going to have any value it's going to all turn to dust and ashes unless it is based on love on love if you have very deep and very intense desires for material things by all means concentrate on it and get it and discover how the moths and rust corrupt it and suffer the consequences and then and do it fast I want you to please go and don't play with it go ahead and get it over with then you'll come back and really be ready to put your attention on what matters continuously consistently the sort of thing that cannot be corrupted now again not that there's anything wrong with having material things you understand I always like to warn you about this I'm talking about the value we give.

Don't let your coin and your goals be that, because we sell ourselves down the river. Again, that's another reason we have love, the heart, being held by the Empress. And the dominion, the dominion of that staff is a very important thing to understand. Also, please note the bench she sits on is very fancy.

it's you know the uh high priestess sits on a very plain cube but the empress sits on a bench that has curlicues and tussles and you know all sorts of decorations but which in itself is an indication that creative imagination yours and mine we are the way the lord of the universe puts extra decoration into life's experience and that's part of our function in fact it's part of our responsibility to life now the waters there you notice the water is coming down those are the same waters that started from the high priestesses robe in other words from subconsciousness which has been impregnated by the attention of self-consciousness the magician comes you see this pool and the ripples and again and that that's showing us the moon and the powers of subconsciousness and you notice that the empress has the moon at her feet now there there are two important meanings here number one subconsciousness is the foundation for everything we create for the whole door of life.

Well, this by now we certainly must know. But there's another reason for it being at the feet. It's because she has subconsciousness under control. You are being shown creativity in its positive sense. If you were shown pictures of creativity in its negative sense, you couldn't bear it. And besides, that would be a very terrible suggestion. in tarot every principle of your consciousness is being shown you in its positive sense so that you can grab every tarot key as you need to once you've been studying it and learn how to help you keep yourself from being pulled into warped imaging to help you keep yourself from being pulled into hate imaging to help you keep yourself from being pulled into wastefulness you know what happens to the wastrel the wastrel wastes life and do you know the waste of life is the biggest sin there is it may sound terrible to say but the person who goes out and makes mistakes just but still has the desire to know and understand and improve is going to evolve faster than the one that's the wastrel, you know, that says, ah, I don't feel like doing it, you know, tomorrow, manana, manana, manana. There is no such thing as a tomorrow. Everything, all creativity is continuously going on, and when we put off, for example, our studies, when we put off keeping our attention on the things that we want, when we keep putting it off, tomorrow, tomorrow, what we find is we never have anything in the now we have no fulfillment in the now we have no real friendship in the now we have no real work to give us pleasure in the now because everything is a tomorrow can you I hope you're seeing this point so everything must be placed in its proper areas in our consciousness and utilized the gift of life is the gift of attention the power of consciousness to pay attention and what we pay attention to is what we plant in subconsciousness and we are imaging it and then this is what we multiply and we multiply it and then we experience it my cup runneth over am i full of hate oh well i have enemies believe me my cup will run it over with enemies am i full of love believe me it will multiply itself in my life and my cup will runneth over with love wherever I love loved ones ones for me to love and and vice versa to be loved back and yet my desire will be to love to love because this is the secret what I am imaging this is the only concern so my darlings if you want to really know divine love and incidentally you have the love of the divine but if you don't know it what good is it to you at the moment you see you're not utilizing it if you want to consciously really know the divine love and consciously see the miracle of this guidance that you really have whether you know it or not what must be done is to utilize the magic of this but this key is showing you it is giving you this magic you see the voice of god says so it is thunder handy of god give us verification and that means we have to make a pact with ourselves a dedication if you will with ourselves with the deepest part of ourselves to watch our imaging you know that is the point of control no no matter what your problems are no matter what your problems have been no matter how many hells you are in or hells you have been in it is not necessary to stay in any one of them not at all it is at the point of imaging that we start making the changes you find yourself you know and i've mentioned it quite often to you for example if you're listening to music is there a sordid melody coming on oh my love why hath thou forsaken me don't image that don't don't this is this is the mass consciousness you know the mess the world's in well believe me that's the mass consciousness mess in the way it's thinking yours is the privilege yours is the divine gift yours is the knowledge of what to do about it and how to go about doing something about it so don't permit anything out there to lure you into these negative imagings because you are only then aiding mammon that's the real mammon the devil oh and there's a devil to pay and hill to pay isn't there and so don't let yourself get into get all worked up don't start imaging so and so is an s o so s o b or s o d or s o z which is even worse you know than an f o b or e or or they wouldn't interfere with my doing my job properly or she wouldn't interfere so and so is a horrible thing and and boy i'd like to tear them limb from limb be careful you might develop an illness the way you feel you're being torn them from limb you see what i mean this is imaging and this is imaging giving being given that powerful wallop the wallop of the desire nature look at on the tree of life that's victory and that's a sign the green victory on the tree of life that's a sign to the sphere of venus the desire nature which the empress represents in its upper functions as a path that's the function of activity there and victory what you desire which means what you the goal you set and how you use this your creative imagination charged with that power oh god what power you have this you are going to have my beloved ones what i want you to know is this you can't lose you can't lose furthermore i want to tell you something else you never have lost you think you lost that man or that woman nonsense you never you have always won you have successfully manifested everything that ever has happened or happens to you even though you may have forgotten the beginnings by holding morbid thoughts you have a morbid imaging you've successfully manifested morbidities by entertaining hate feelings resentment feelings you have successfully manifested what we image we manifest we are children learning how to manifest beauty it is true there are things come from the mass consciousness that are part of our lot as part part of the total group which become a part of our lives at times but that doesn't have to when we understand these principles that doesn't pull us down I may live in what's called a modest place somebody very near and dear to me just last night you know saying now look you know I'm not like you or we are not like you we haven't got the temperament to sacrifice the way you sacrifice I said, sacrifice? What do you mean, sacrifice? Of course I knew. But sometimes, wisdom, bless your heart, wisdom, O you crown of twelve jewels and diadems, the better part of wisdom is to deliberately act like you're very dumb, you know, wisdom and folly.

sometimes the wisest thing to do is to act dumb you see so i decided so i said sacrifice what are you talking about well the way you sacrifice i said the way i sacrifice what do i sacrifice what are you talking about i don't understand what in the world you mean well what your values i said what kind of sacrifice am i making in my values do i lack anything well the way you live i said So what's the matter with the way I live? I don't sacrifice anything. I have the most fulfilled life I know of. It's more than you can say.

And of course, because I loved that person.

I wasn't going to let that person think of me in this image of sacrifice because I'll tell you, my loves, and the truth of the matter is, the attainment of the grade that actually involves where the path of this Empress crosses has to do with attaining the kind of consciousness where what the world calls sacrifice the adept and the master called their good pleasure their good pleasure so I have never I can assure you if I live in a modest place and I haven't got any room room to put my things and jacob and i we have what the world would consider inconveniences i can assure you it is our good pleasure the lord of the universe is helping us use the empress our imagination and believe me we get a lot of exercise and learning what to do with the things we have to have etc to get along in those areas now you see the difference in the point of view now somebody else would say I haven't got room for my things I can't stand living in this mess Jacob would never do that well the point is imagination is the gift of divine love because with your ability to image you can bring about the most complete fulfillment but knowing how to image is what really involves the most complete wisdom and that means knowing how to interpret what's here how to reason with it and so next time we can when we have my Sunday which will be the second Sunday of next month we will take up key for the Emperor where we'll continue with this the theme of the evolution of consciousness and for today what I want you to try to hold in your heart more than anything is this dear God I thank you I'm a winner your love for me is manifest I have this fantastic extraordinary miraculous ability and capacity to image I dedicate myself to keep my imaging in harmony with love and lovingness and to search out the knowledge and the wisdom that is your gift of life to me in everything I see around me to look for and experience the beauty to look at the beauty of the tree when I'm walking on the street instead of growling at the ugliness of the post to look at the beauty of a person's eyes or nose instead of what I might think is the the ugliness of their mouth or words, to look at the beauty of the sky and the rain and to say, this is God's tender washings, to say, not this is a gray day, this is a silver day.

Think on these things.

Divine love is creativity.
