The title of our talk for this morning is Desire and Love in Qabalah.

That means that we're going to talk about the Sephirah on the Qabalistic Tree of Life, which you see before you, called Victory, the one that's colored green. I took two of my Sundays days to speak about beauty since it happened to come during the christmas season and as we know beauty is one of the names for that portion of our consciousness being symbolically shown on the tree of life that signifies the most vital aspects of our own self-awareness in other words the one ego go seated in the hearts of men is involved with beauty the the identification of humanity as adam because adam means humanity the identification of humanity or adam with the central aspect of the qabalistic tree the identification also therefore of adam with being actually being not having to become your mind but being the begotten of god since sun s-o-n is also attributed to this area on the tree we had it uh very beautifully harmonized seemed to me not by by deliberate conscious plan, it just worked out that way.

In other words, the subconscious planning for the titles just worked out that speaking about that in us, which we may call the Christ consciousness, or the anointed, the Messiah in each and every one of us, that in us which is the true Redeemer, that in us which is offspring of God, it came during the season that we meditate this in more than one ways both in outward celebration and in inward search for the answer to who and what we are this is the period when consciousness does turn that way since it comes on the winter winter solstice so this interaction that we have between what is also remember the image making power of the most high as expressed via beauty called Tiphareth in the the expression and projection through the personality this outpouring this extraordinary creativity that takes place this principle behind all manifestation becomes after it has been you might say nourished by the divine womb of God after it has arrived at a certain degree of brilliance in other words ability to appear to shine by its own light as the physical sun does you know it it shines by its own light literally in other words it takes the atoms and brings them together bringing them together via the law of attraction does what actually it is an act of love between atoms that fuses certain atoms to become other kind of atoms this is what happens in the sun and the result is the extra energy that comes due to the act of fusing or due to the act of expressing the unity and oneness of god due to the expression expression of love, therefore, this results in the outpouring of light, the light being one symbol, remember, for illumination.

Also the outpouring of that which is self-impartation or the need to give, because all love, all love that is true love has a need to outpour.

if we can only remember that we never have to wonder whether we are in a state of loving or not when we have this need to outpour this need to give benevolently we are in a state of love when we have this need to outpour to self-impart whether it be a song whether it be a a word of laughter, to give a chuckle, a laugh. Whether it be a protectiveness, whether it be gifts, whether it be money, which is also in a way a gift or something that becomes a gift on the physical plane, whether it be things, any urge that is pure, any urge, when I say that it's pure, that has no motive, that isn't, for example, just trying to buy love, though, as you've heard me say, I think it's better to try to buy love than to get out and work at getting hate.

It's very much better, because at least it shows the desire nature is working, wanting to receive love, and going about it in an immature manner.

isn't anything to worry about too much, provided we recognize when we're being immature and work at maturing the ways that we express this desire. So first, let's think for a moment about desire so that we can more fully understand love. Remember, from beauty or Tiphareth, which is the outpouring of the selfhood, the self-consciousness, the ego that is centered in the hearts of men we have the next development which is the beginning of what we might call our outer personality or the personality which we usually think we are because most of us are identified with our personalities not because we can help it incidentally we can't really help i mean it we are identified with the personality not because we just choose to do so in a manner that is due to immaturity we are identified with our personalities because we have not yet discovered discovered, that the personality, although it is a part of the Divine Self, that the personality, although it certainly is a very valuable expression, that this personality is an aspect different, or let's say it functions on a level that is not the same as the higher levels of consciousness and yet this personality is that which the divine itself has been growing your personality is something that the divine has been growing in order to develop ever more ways for its self-impartation or the divine has been growing ever more personalities which in order to have the vast if you might say infinite numbers and ways of expressing its own love its own richness which is it cannot have or express except via something that is of and like itself therefore the image and likeness of God receives this impact of energy and this impact of energy when we are clothed in the skin of flesh when we are within a physical manifestation this impartation of the livingness of god which is your livingness is identified temporarily with that which we call our bodies and with that which we call our personalities now our personalities if you as as you recall, consist mostly, that is the outer personality, consists mostly of those attributes of our consciousness which have to do with our desires.

That's the one we're discussing this morning, victory, the green Sephirah, with our analytical powers, the intellectual portion of our minds. Some people think the intellect is the mind, but it's not. The intellect is one portion of the way the mind works. The intellect here is shown by the orange Sephirah, splendor, and then there's foundation, the violet Sephirah, which is the subconscious portion, or that in us which holds the patterns and projects. the patterns of habitual desire from Netzef, habitual analysis from splendor. It is through this portion of our being that we project our outer condition, the outer condition being the conditions that we live in on the physical plane.

Now, this again then shows on the tree or expresses the idea that what our minds image and picture and charge with energy this is what occurs on the physical plane again we could say in other words everything that we experience on the physical plane is a final result of causes that are not physical in nature In other words, our physical conditions, our physical environment, is the final result of causes that have to do with the states and degrees of consciousness.

Now, certain states and degrees of consciousness that we hold are, we will grant, very immature.

And because these states are immature, we have not yet developed the ability or the capacity to think more in harmony with the divine wisdom and to desire more in harmony with the divine self-importation therefore what we see on the outer plane on the physical plane is something that's pretty closely akin to hell when we look with the proper eye of understanding what we see is man against man what we see are human beings attempting to take advantage of other human beings what we see therefore is something like a house divided I think that that might be the best way to express it, because you see, man is not that divided.

We may appear separate. We look at each other, because we have these fantastic senses, these vehicles.

We experience each other in our consciousness.

We image each other, because of the impact of the various vibrations. and then we think that everything we see out there is separate from us whereas in reality it isn't even separate physically speaking not really, not when you think of the subtle physical because even thinking of it in physical terms even our atoms are basically shared our scientists tell us, you've heard me mention this before Our scientists tell us that we are emanating our various atoms at such an extraordinary rate that everything interacts with everything else. And remember the atoms group together into patterns which make various elements. the elements group together in certain patterns which bring about various symphonies that have to do with the expression of the consciousness of the atoms and thereby develop the next phases of what our bodies consist of in other words ever more complex groupings so that we go from atoms to groups of atoms, to the other developments, until finally we have the, you know, like molecules, and the molecules gathering together finally make what we call a cell, and every cell in our bodies might be called a little bit of an animal consciousness, which we are are in charge of temporarily since we are in time and space and then our human consciousness is holding together this group of molecules and cells and so on in a field and this particular field then is not static or it isn't held together with a barrier that is that fixed because atoms go through it continuously as we they fly out of us and we take them in we are continuously changing our bodies we are continuously continuously changing the cell structure, continuously.

And the result basically is that coming in and out of you right now are various atoms or other kinds of particles, energy particles that are like portions of atoms, cosmic rays and what have you, going through and making up part of this field of consciousness which which you are, you have the energies that have been thrown out with the abandon of rapture by exploding supernovas and stars.

If you think an explosion of a star is something terrible, how do you know? Maybe it exploded with joy in a self-importation.

You know, consciousness goes on different grades. and this interaction that takes place then is such that everything really shares its essence with everything else everything everything therefore even physically speaking interacts while we've been here together this morning we've all sort of handed each other and taken from each other all kinds of atoms if it was in harmony with our own basic consciousness that is the consciousness of a particular atom why i guess it stayed around rather happily if it wasn't it stayed around rather unhappily and on a level that is not in on the self-conscious level it It goes out in waves and at the same time is received simultaneously, everything.

Well, in the same way, remember, we share everything. So this idea of being separate is at the heart of our problems. And this idea of being separate is at the heart of the hell that we see when we look at the condition of humanity. now everything that is taught by the masters of Qabalah everything gives us this marvelous and this beautiful this glorious this hopeful message we are told continuously and over and over again that no matter how hellish the world looks and it is admitted that it certainly looks that way and therefore consciousness experiencing it in that manner. It is that way in a certain area of beingness. But that no matter how hellish any of it is, and it is and we cannot blind ourselves to it and should not blind ourselves to it, we should also help ourselves to recognize the fact that all this hell is pretty much like the very unpleasant odor that is inevitable when perfume is being made did you know when perfume is being manufactured there is a certain phase it goes through that is horribly horribly unpleasant and in the same manner when consciousness is evolving it has certain stages where it's desire nature being in a state of misunderstanding as to where desire comes from what it is and how it should be expressed because of this kind of immaturity people take the energy of desire which is divine incidentally it is the divine creative energy and And they bring about images, they charge emotions into these creative patterns that are not harmonious with the basic divine urge, or call it then the divine will, if you will.

remember what was read to you from the bible a beautiful choice and remember what you've been told over and over again when you give yourself over to the divine will and become willing to will as the father willeth which means when you are willing for your desires to be in harmony with the divine love that is imparting itself all the time then and then only incidentally do you start imaging in harmony with being the image and likeness of God the divine and then what What happens on the physical plane for you has to be in harmony with that because you see desire is always victorious. That's why victory is given to the basic and most important meaning of the word netza, victory. There is more than one interpretation for the word, but victory is considered by the Qabalistic masters the most important.

In other words, what we're being told is this. Desire is always victorious.

Always.

Not sometimes.

Always.

There never was a time since you were projected by the divine image-making power into an image-making expression and power for god in an individualized manner never have you failed in experiencing and getting what you desire what do you think of that you are victorious right now and you have never been unvictorious ah is that so is that so you mean I the fact that I'm miserable that's victory oh ho ho such victory my enemy should have ho ho think some I mean that's victory i need that like a hole in the head this kind of victory so why don't you help me to fail please think some when they hear this well some might say victory what about the one who's the victim what about the one who's the victim victim of the hate that is part of the slander man gives to man what about that what about the murderers and the rapists what about the completely immoral individuals what about the victims of these terrible creatures you're not going to tell me they desired that are you now well Well, not exactly.

The point is, all of us, as we've often pointed out to you, all of us share the consciousness of humanity, even that portion that we don't like.

We all share it. We share all of the drives in a very special way because we are not separate.

everything that any of us or any member of humanity may think is something shared to some degree by all now those of us who have worked a little harder or a little longer one or the other or both at learning how to be receptive because remember qabalah means to receive and a qabalist as one who becomes receptive to the divine will and therefore a capitalist knows how to express the divine will bit by bit but the point is that the ability the capacity to be a victim has to do also with our ability and capacity to learn how to take every experience and make it love how to take every the riches out of every experience and bring it through ourselves as we've been pointing out to you in the Thursday night classes bringing patterns that are unlovely from the mass mind of humanity and we cannot escape the mind of humanity because we're a portion of it but learning how to recognize that which is unbeautiful which is ugly which tends to separativeness to recognize it and with the magic of our power with the magic of our ability with the magic of that which is the divine power working in and through us as there is no other power with that magic we recognize an unlovely desire or an unlovely interpretation of a desire or an unlovely image and we use our own consciousness as though we're a strainer in other words we strain out that which is not in harmony with our spiritual aspiration and that which we've taught to follow and we take take that same strained portion and we kind of we melt it down you know that's why it's often been said that in the divine alchemy you'll have to learn how to keep a certain amount of heat going not too hot and not too cold because you have to melt down you don't want to boil a thing away you see and you don't want it to just stay in the state it was so the point is just like melting down or you learn by trying and recognizing of your power you learn to take after you have sifted it and this takes a fraction of a second by the way you learn to just melt down the drive that is not in harmony with the divine will to beauty to love self self-importation, and you melt it down and reform it.

And it, as I said, it takes a split second. Say, suppose suddenly, because something has been said by someone, suddenly I feel a state of anxiety. We're all subject to that. How can we help being subject to that? We shouldn't expect not to be subject to that.

But there it is. now we can either take it and worry it and therefore feed it in other words oh I feel anxious what's wrong with me what's wrong with me what is this is this an intuition is it an intuition is it a warning what's wrong with me you see how we're instantly pouring emotion and remember the desire nature nature nature holds the emotions all the emotions of personality uh work in and out of the desire nature i mean they're inseparable well it's the moving that it's the movement emotion you might say is the movement of the desire nature and you cannot be without a desire nature because then you you wouldn't have anything with which to aspire towards God. To desire God requires having a desire nature. Otherwise, how are you going to desire?

To love God, to love a tree, to love each other. You require a desire nature. Not that desire and love are synonymous.

But one follows the other just like a body in the light has to have a shadow in the same way you have to you cannot have one without the other so that where love exists there the desire nature has to be there because love has you might say love possesses or owns certain desires now when it's true love that is love that's in harmony with divine love the kind of desires it possesses are desires that have to do with the self-importation the giving of the self and of all good and all benevolence this is an easy this is an easy way to help us by remembering this interpretation to help us to know how we're really feeling about some people sometimes although we have more than one feeling you know we vary but we should all remember that in a split second we can take any kind of negative or unbeautiful emotion or anything that has to do with say the need for self uh importance importance the need to have power over another the need to amass wealth the need to run other people's other people's lives any of these needs that have to do with a certain sense of personal insecurity can be transmuted when we learn to recognize them for what they are and the love nature therefore along with the desire nature according to all qabalistic teaching involves the ability and the capacity to receive love as well as to understand what love is what it is not and incidentally what to desire for example if you will look on this tree you'll notice that there's a path pouring from mercy the path of Tarot key 10 the path of cough pours from mercy into victory that's the desire nature now remember that mercy is that that sphere of the activity of consciousness, which is assigned to Jupiter, Jupiter the higher mind, Jupiter the profuse giver, Jupiter the generous, so that Jupiterian qualities are thought to be generous.

You know, Jupiter, for example, in the planetary system is the largest planet we've got. And indeed, some of our astronomers astronomers are not a bit sure that jupiter uh wasn't meant to be another sun and might not be a cross between a planet and a sister sun to the sun i don't know if you're aware of that because it has qualities of both qualities that are in line with being a planet and qualities that are are in line with actually being a sun in the process of becoming a sun because you see a sun becomes a sun how by taking onto itself more and more from the out all out pourings of the the heavens uh collecting into a field a compression until it finally and literally lights itself by compression in other words let's put it another way you by concentration meditation literally light yourself you become a radiance a radiance that has a need then to give of itself having a need to give of yourself is the principle of that's behind love or the pourings of love so So that whatever we see on the physical plane has its inner connotations as you see.

Well now, that path of Kav that takes us from the mercy, the benevolence of God, because all these sefiris are spheres of activity of the universal life, all of them. they are also the spheres of activity of you because man is made in the image and likeness of god so we have these spheres of activity also therefore our mercy the degree of your mercy the degree of your benevolence pours via kauf the degree of your jupiterian nature or higher mind into victory or the desire nature and also that in you which has a capacity to experience and express love on the personality level mind you now mind you the divine love is the only love there is but on the personal level or pouring in and through the personal level it's pretty much like what happens to water like this now the water poured into this glass had to take the shape of this glass it had no alternative now I can take this same water and I can pour it into a bowl and it has no alternative it's going to take the shape of a bowl I can take the same water and I can pour it into a vase vase vase that holds flowers and it has no alternative the water has to take the shape of the vase and i can pour it into the most intricate kind of containers all kinds tall short wide thin the water takes on the form of that which is holding it automatically in the same manner the only life that there is and that's the divine life and the only love that there is and that's the divine love and the only desire that there is and that is the movement of the divine love in the need of the divine love to impart more of its selfhood you love you have a need to give you'll go out of your mind I love you, I have to give I have to shine on you I have to give my expressions of my affection I have to say darling, I have to say precious and some people get offended that means they can't even receive love I have a need to use endearing terms I know a lot of people use it only for an effect well you have to learn how to tell the difference between hypocrisy and reality don't you all of you and this we all learn via experience but you see this one life which is the life of the one God blessed be this one love which is the divine principle of love this pours through its vehicles like and and therefore the divine love and the desire that comes there from or the interpretation of love or what one loves or the idea of what one wants this need that god obviously has to give of self capital s to children being begotten at all times this is taken by the containers which and the containers are our personalities your personality my personality and they and the divine love takes on the shape does that mean the divine love is wicked evil sinful cruel definitely not water is water it takes on the shape of the vehicle it's in therefore those who have have not yet evolved because remember our consciousness is being grown in time and space we are as dr case said unfinished products we're in the process and oh can we smell bad before we come the perfumed essence of the the most high and actually recognizing this then we don't have to hate those who hate are in that very odorous unpleasant over estate you understand in in their growth.

The container is sending out a warped, or what appears like something other than it is.

So we watch people who, for example, are insecure, because how can anyone know true security until they've learned who and what they are?

How can we? as long as we feel separate from god as long as we are separate one from another we have to have certain areas that feel insecure with some it may be the if how they affect others and their looks with others it might be their personality and others it might be uh earning a living there are a thousand and one ways to be insecure you know some people think they're so secure when actually they often are expressing more insecurity people who for example are madly in love with their intellects which I used to be I mean I suffered from that more than anyone I've ever known I absolutely had the most complete and utter passion for my intellect I knew that nothing and no one in the world could equal it absolutely not and I looked with both pity and sometimes a little impatience at the various individuals who obviously showed such a lack in mentality I was having a love affair with myself all over the place in a very negative manner because you see when we say or you hear us say we should learn to love ourselves that this isn't what we mean so i might have been walking around seeming to be fantastically secure in relation to my intellect for example but in as much as my security in that area was based on the worshiping of false gods thou shalt worship no other god before me and after all if you're going to worship your own ego do allah allah onto it you know or your own intellect whatever it might be what the result has to be pretty bad you have to reap certain repercussions you have to become wise you have to develop now all of us go through the undeveloped stage when we are in our our teens for example because we always recapitulate our evolution you know psychological we recapitulate it through childhood and then we arrive at whatever state of maturity we have gained up to this point from past incarnations we arrive at it anywhere between between the ages of 25 and 85, depending on how recent certain maturities have been.

So that's why we have differences in the age levels or the time that people have various illuminations, where they really can go to work on some of the patterns more effectively and more rapidly. But the point is that when we come to recognize that all of the evil and ugliness and hell that exists on the planet, and it does, that it is there because we have a process going on where at the moment it is fantastically malodorous.

It is not a fragrant perfume.

When we recognize that we have arrived at that point in our evolution, where we're able to recognize this, then we stop adding to the mass mind consciousness, we stop adding our two cents worth of nonsense or bad odor.

And to that degree are we already helping the evolution of humanity because I, if I be lifted up, lift all others unto myself. but then comes the next thing the next step is not just being contented with not adding to the mass mind immaturity bad smell the evil the sins the hatred the separateness that I you know I'm going to take advantage of you because I'm smarter I'm bigger this you know III I get mine at your expense you know i'm going to get my power so you'll have to knuckle under you know i'm going to run your life because i'm smarter than you etc you see all of these things are additions to the negativity or the immaturities it isn't that sometimes we uh don't have to run things but you see the qabalist never has a need to run things the qabalist always sees that the developed qabalist master of qabalah always sees the self as being a steward even of qualities so let's say if you've developed uh certain qualities you don't uh you there's no need to run out in order to run things automatically the lord of the universe blessed be he through the higher self places certain things in the jurisdiction of these centers we become stewards of that which is truly worthwhile we become stewards of wisdom stewards for the expression of the highest aspects of the tradition a spiritual teacher does not teach that is in the Qabalistic essence when it's a Qabalistic spiritual teacher such a a teacher does not teach in the same way that you find in other areas or groups, except in rare instances, because the teacher who is attempting to bring the Qabalistic essence to you is working with this principle of divine self-importation and wouldn't even remotely make an attempt at trying to run your life or say now you do so and so because I said so or after all I'm smarter or wiser you'll find this is one of the most fantastic differences that one never desires to run somebody else's life or other people's lives there is no need to have the power and at the end when we because we know incidentally that the one power we want to express is the power of the divine will to be proper stewards and to be the givers of the benevolence of God as well as to be givers of the disciplines if necessary now this may surprise you but do you know the divine word of power assigned to victory which remember holds the desire nature and how we love via the personality the divine name is yod he vahe tzabaus now you know what that means literally it means you know that which was that that which is and that which will be the Lord is an army, a host of armies, going to war.

Now, does that sound horrible?

But you see, here is where people can misunderstand.

You cannot have true peace unless you make war.

Think about that for a moment. not on the physical plane, not the way they're doing it. God have mercy on their souls. When you get out to kill your fellow man, you kill yourself.

Legal murder is still murder. No. This army going to war is the angelic hosts that are being projected by the divine benevolence to aid the true spiritual aspirant in applying the power of god to bring discipline and teaching like we do a child when my little daughter bonnie as a two and three year old went popping out into the street where cars are where cars drive i tell tell you she'd got. First she was told, don't, it's dangerous. And you know, you can't listen when you're young. You learn only if discipline comes. So then discipline was given. And I have news for you, it was not light. I had no intention of permitting my Bonnie to go get herself killed if i could help it i therefore used all the power that i had within me to really scare the living daylights out of her when it comes to running out into the street where cars are without first looking one way and looking the other way in other words she had to go through a ritual before she could cross the street when she didn't pay attention she had her little legs spanked a little rear end or the derriere or the exterior portion of the anatomy whatever you wish the little switch on her the thighs of her legs because it was the legs that you know or the disobedient portions of the anatomy, and so on.

And let me tell you, she was able to go out and to be trusted, to go out and even take a bus to meet me downtown when she was five years old.

Now that's very amazing, isn't it? Unusual. But she could be trusted. Because I loved her enough to apply the discipline. In other words, I made war against her immaturity. now that's what it means you see the outpouring from the benevolence or mercy of God therefore into victory and that's the desire nature as well as the way we love doesn't have to do with namby-pamby sentimentality it does not have to do with what we often think it does and in the same manner if we find ourselves in states of unhappiness on the physical plane we had better just sit down in a very happy way say now if I am uncomfortable in my environment or if I am having this and that problem now how can I improve my imagery how can I bring it more into harmony with what with my concept of the divine imagery without you know beating ourselves on the head because again i point out if we're going to just beat our chests and make all kinds of heroic declarations about ourselves which are very negative we are merely feeding negative the negative states of being now to desire what what god desires the path alone shows did you know the path is called the path of desirous quest therefore we have to know what we really want you remember that's the first thing you told in seven steps the very first thing the first lesson you're told you've got to decide what you want the path of desirous quest you know what a spiritual aspiration is it's the path of desirous quest and it's assigned to cuff the jupiterian influence which is the giver the benevolent giver and this benevolent giver pours itself into that where when we are taking this divine love and utilizing it in immature manners like you belong to me and don't you dare look at anybody you walk along the street keep your eyes on the concrete you know don't you dare and don't you dare think that any other member of the opposite sex is beautiful and don't you dare this and don't you dare that you see this isn't love a lot of people think that's love this isn't love at all and this is where we misunderstand remember what I just said you what you are loving when you have a need to give and you can't just decide oh i have a need to give love is the grace of god now first i tell you you have to work on yourself and then i tell you it's the grace of god and you might say oh what's what do i do now then the grace of god is searching trying trying, working at entering in and being expressed via its instrument, your personality.

It is working all the time. It has been working all through untold numbers of incarnations. It's working now to bring about in you the ability and the capacity to see that you do not have to sacrifice a thing. you do not have to go through any uh states of chest beating you do not have to say oh i'm so unhappy because i'm going through uh the breaking up of my karma or whatever it is because that is utterly unnecessary that is feeding all of the energies the wrong manner The truth is, when we're willing to walk with the divine love, all we're really saying, basically, is that we're becoming more willing because we're developing the capacity to permit ourselves to be loved, as well as having recognized the fact that the only real security there is is in having so much love and so much insight so much wisdom so much understanding that we have this rapture in giving that our only need is to give now too many people have a need to give their ignorance and of course what do they expect to develop back into their lives and too many people have a need to bring about whatever they think is their material security in their in erroneous ways the master of qabalah is secure because the master of qabalah knows that there isn't a thing that is needful that doesn't come now why is that because the moment i have a desire that's in harmony with the divine will then there can be no question about it coming and it has even to do with silly things you know or maybe it's not so silly you know we had quite a few years where the the styles that people who hate others were perpetrating upon us.

In other words, men who hate women developed a bunch of styles for women to wear that made women look more ridiculous than anything you ever saw. And women, like a bunch of sheep, went and followed.

And, you know, suppose someone says I'm not well-dressed. They went and followed it. so they put on these sacks and paid one and two and three hundred dollars for them and got prizes for being the the more sacky you were the more the uh you know the more you could be mentioned in in the best dressed uh ads and they got uh they got emaciated starved uh females to represent the ideal of a female straight and flat no bosom no nothing no hips skeletons and they got them to put on these sacks that sort of pooched out in the back made them look hunchbacked and that was smart they did and women like permitted it there hey they then they they worked it out in shoes they put them in these pointed points in the front and then these spikes with which was wrecking to wreck the pelvis wreck the back they had to toggle and they marched around thinking this is beautiful and anyone who didn't follow that path was looked down upon they have no flair if you don't fall you know so poorly dressed you should see the way people picked on me saying after all anne you do represent the work and therefore you have to bring bota prestige by at least being dress you know you should be dressed smartly dear god not me not me at any rate there were years that i couldn't buy any clothes because i wasn't about to put on sacks and uh and false hunchback you know that they're hunching around there on their back and apparently sort of some dresses hugging the thighs and hind end in order to exaggerate the movement that a female makes because of her pelvis, which is very lovely and flowing, but bringing exaggerations, that was also part of...

No, only those who hated women did that.

And of course, since too many men hate women and so many of the homosexuals are very creative and therefore they're attracted to this field of creativity they really, maybe I shouldn't tell you this maybe I shouldn't put you wise maybe I should let you find out in other ways but you see I love you and I'm willing to upset one or two or three of you even all of you if necessary though it's not necessary what I'm trying to say what i'm trying to say is that when we are willing to receive the divine will when we are willing to receive the divine benevolence when we are willing to receive the divine love we do not have to give up anything at all that has any value real value you we certainly should be willing to give up looking like damn fools if you'll excuse the expression we should be willing to give up being made fools of just because a few people have gotten the power to declare what is and is not supposed to be stylish and so So I looked around at the terrible things that went on, discovered I couldn't buy clothes, and I have as much vanity as anybody.

As a matter of fact, I'm going to tell you a secret. More. I have more.

I have more of anything, including vanity.

Why not?

Because I don't have it. I just play with it. I like to look well. Who doesn't? Why shouldn't we want to look nice? As nice as God will let us look on all planes. at the moment although the only true beauty is the beauty of spirit meanwhile we want to show it up and in as whatever is a truly lovely way so i when all of these horrible things and incidentally i was screaming even louder about what men were permitting was we're permitting themselves to become because in the same manner the men were having their hair all cut down short and yeah and so on beautiful God didn't make man to have all the there's a lovely main you know I don't mean unkempt not unkempt everyone should want to be beautifully clean and groomed this is part of true love and true desire to present a groomed lovely sacred effect to the greatest ability that we can but men permitted themselves to be kept in in the most outlandish non-color all a man ever wore was gray and brown and black and white shirts and anybody who put on a red tie oh loud loud you know instantly they were painted with a brush that was supposed to be very terrible and deleterious and when a group of them started to grow their hair everybody started to scream how horrible how horrible how horrible and of course those who knew me and attended my classes came a few of them accused me he said ann you're the one it's your fault you put into the mass mind the idea that men should not permit commit themselves to just be scalped, you know, unless they happen to like to look a special way.

Like, what's his name, Yul Brunner? He has a gorgeous shaped head, and it's nice to have variety.

So there's nothing wrong with that. But to follow the sheep, you see what I mean? Everybody was just following a pattern that has nothing to do with the freedom of the divine creativity within oneself and so and so i said men should be free to have long hair short hair buster brown haircut all and all should be acceptable as long as it's clean and well groomed if they want to have mustaches and beards it should be acceptable they certainly should be colorful because god meant the male of the species she's to be colorful and I said it and by golly it became fashionable I also said women should look like women again in fact they should wear the styles that are becoming to me that should be fashionable and by golly it happened and suddenly the and all at once suddenly that became fashionable so they say now you did it well maybe let's say I certainly didn't hurt it because what i was always willing to receive the divine benevolence why and to give it out because this is the only state in which we have the real security not by going out with false fronts not by going out and having to be important i was picked on because i wouldn't give up my little Anglia that cost $1,140-some-odd, a very old Anglia that looked like a Model T Ford, you know, very top high. I was criticized because I wouldn't give up my little Anglia car. I should have a very luxurious car, I was told. Otherwise, if we teach that we don't have to be in want what kind of example are you giving ann i was asked when you drive around in such a very old and rickety kind of a car and i said what do you mean old and rickety i've only had it 10 years and that that isn't old and what do you mean rickety it sings and what do you mean and what do you what do you mean that the car that it's uh you know there's too much of the the up and down i said people spend a lot of money to for vibrators to be vibrated and here i vibrate you for free if you drive in my car you don't appreciate it i'll start charging you and then you'll suddenly think that it's valuable all right now learn how to desire that and you know as I said it the thing is it isn't only easy the point is life is full of joy when we stop accepting the mass mind ideas of value and walk in the divine value which is the the inner riches, you are going to be able to walk in a state of love where everything that, when you have that, everything you want will come.

Even a change of styles and clothing. Thank you, God. I don't know how long we can hold it this way, but we'll try.

But everything that we really need, we can have, and it isn't hard. hard every fulfillment that is true fulfillment we can have and it isn't difficult as a matter of fact for you it is easier than easy you are destined absolutely destined to have complete fulfillment you are destined to know the riches and the Rapture of so much love capacity that you'll march around and give it out and also say darling and precious whether other people like it or not you are destined to have such a joy and glory to to appreciate everything so fully why because to you it is something that you are enjoying for the moment and you're willing to let it go to flow with the death card which is really life eternal life you're willing to let things come and go because you are well you are destined to have the fulfillment that can never be lost to love and to be loved to give and therefore to receive because you do not receive anything except you become a giver a good hint for you and you do not ever experience true love except you have a need to give furthermore your every desire is destined to be fulfilled and therefore it becomes necessary to interpret your desire in the higher way so that your fulfillment will be fulfillment of joy rather than the other kind which brings the repercussions and is unnecessary now you're not destined to necessarily have it in this lifetime but please why not now why wait it's unnecessary and please don't feel you have to give up anything you want you don't have to give up a thing except your agony and your insecurity all you have to give up are all of the nonsense interpretations of what desire is god is desire the principle of desire and your aspiration is because god has already reached you enough and brought you to the shape your vessel has been shaped enough so that you are already prepared to receive the highest if you stop, look, think, meditate, and keep transmuting the nonsense.

Just throw it out. That's all you have to do. And say, I walk in the joy, the will of God. I walk in the desire of the Most High. I desire nothing but the will of the Father because the will of the Father is that I have absolutely everything. I am king. I am ruler of all I survey.

This is your destiny.
