The topic of our talk for this morning is a very interesting topic.

It's Disciples, Initiates, Adepts and Masters. Now I ask you, how are you going to talk about all those things?

Seems ridiculous. But I'll figure it out.

Is that what you said, Annie, back there? I thought I heard you mumbling in a very cute way.

She's been with us a long time. She knows me, my sweet Annie girl there. Well, I chose this title really quite deliberately because I wanted the title itself to give you a message.

The message being a message that involves evolution.

We are continuously trying to bring about an insight, a real insight into what evolution is all about, what it is, even sometimes we foolishly try to tell you why it is, and, of course, who's going to be able to prove us wrong.

You see, it puts us in a spot.

But it makes me that much more determined to be as completely accurate in my reports to you as God will permit me to be. That has to do with my ability then as well as my knowledge of the subject. I feel I have a very profound knowledge of the subject because I have something that very few people are able to get, at least within one incarnation or the incarnation they're in. I have the great grace of God that gave me the ability or the capacity to experience evolution, not as an outside thing or an idea or a broken-up something, but I experienced evolution in the only way that from my point of view and really from the point of view of all true knowers of the mysteries, the only way that one can really be sure of what one has, and that is by directly becoming at one with the subject matter. In other words, you cannot know God unless you experience unity with God, become one with God.

You cannot know any particular person though I know lots of people think they do oh how they think they do but you really cannot know any other person unless you become that person you can know about some traits and how they appear to you but the truth of the matter is just like the American Indians had a saying, a very wise saying, that went, quote, Judge no man, lest thou hast walked in his moccasins for three moons. Beautifully poetic way to say it.

You judge no one until you've walked in his boots for three months. Now, who's going to be able to walk in anybody's boots for three months?

Which means judge not, period. But you can see that the mind of man has a tendency to think it knows things because it may know about a thing or it may know and know about a thing only in relation to the reports of other people who have said now this is the way it is now how do we know this is the way it is you've always got the problem of having to judge the reporter because everything that we experience has to go through a its process that deals with our minds our emotions every one of us has a different quality of mind with different leanings every one of us have different types of emotions with subtleties of expression that are very completely and individualistically just our own, so that each variation would lend itself to a completely different interpretation entirely.

And this is true of everyone and everything. Thing there is nothing that is exactly like the the next thing movement change is continuously taking place continuously and within this movement within this change you on the physical plane you cannot have two bodies occupying the same space at the same time mind you I'm saying on the physical plane very careful there which means basically that since you can't really walk in the moccasins of another because you can't be in the same physical spot at the same time then all energies all states of being of thinking or feeling are affecting you from that variation from that that different angle, and that very different angle eventually then affects absolutely everything that is, but everything, because everything in the universe is moving, and each in its own way, direction, rotation and on its axis and into and out of relationship with other forms of movement just to a degree that is utterly impossible for us to understand with our limited minds only the most completely unlimited consciousness which would be the divine unity, the cosmic cosmic, the one I am that I am, a Vaheya could take in all of the movements because within that one they are one. But the moment you have any kind of thought or feeling or emotion that deals with a comparison with something other than just Self, you have something that That has to be different.

It has to express differently. It has to therefore understand differently. And so you must have a different point of view. As a matter of fact, if you would just think for a moment how bored you'd get if you were stuck with only one point of view, I think you could see how if you had the power, you'd immediately create conditions and situations that brought about as many points of view as your capacity was able to grow, wouldn't you now? Can you imagine anything more horrifying than living with just one point of view?

Life would be just death. In fact, how could it be life if it wasn't moving?

If it wasn't moving living experiencing but every experience on the physical plane has to be different from everybody else's experience and it cannot be the same so one of the first mistakes we make is in thinking that we have the same experience as another or another has the same experience as ourselves I remember how often I would be left aghast when I would be attempting to explain some type of very unusual experience and then have someone say oh yes I know all about that I've experienced that and they knew all about it yet no two people could remotely experience the same thing no two people can experience unity with god in the same way what do you think of that they might experience the same god yes but they couldn't experience the quality of feeling in the same way or the uh thinking or the effect on the thinking and feeling in the same way because everybody would have different thoughts different experiences different backgrounds through fantastic eons of time that would be part of your heritage that's what makes you so unique so I deliberately brought in this group of words I could have before the disciples said probationers I just figured it would take too much room and we had to you know carefully weigh and measure each line so because we simply didn't have time for it I might have just in a moment of sort of puckish humor which I get often as you know I might have thrown in every synonym I could think of you know to help you to see that we're talking about evolution and evolution on many different levels with very specific meanings but without calling it that because when we call it the same thing over and over again we think we already know the subject or we've already learned it because we read about it or a lecture was given that alluded to it but no lecture can be exactly the same unless somebody's taking something and reading it but then that isn't lecturing that's just reading the same thing and we'd all react to it differently at different times anyway so so we come to the reason that I gave these different terms to the talk for this morning and the basic reason is that I wanted to try to help you to see that evolution itself as it regards the human evolution because you notice these are all states that we have to apply to the evolving human being.

We all share whatever the states were before the human being or the capacity to think and feel and be reactive like the human consciousness is. We've all gone through that because all evolution of individuality, very obviously and apparently, has some time at which it started. And the time at which it started had to do with the most primitive or primeval beginnings of being caught in a whirlwind you might say of energies and powers and we cast forth into an an interaction an interplay of waves vibrations uh movements and when we stop to remember that all waves all vibrations all movements are taught by the secret wisdom of israel to indicate life god is life remember we call the qabalistic tree the tree of life and we We continuously try to remind you that life itself and mind should not be separated in your consciousness.

That mind is living, absolutely living. If you have mind, you have to have life.

Now when we say living, we don't mean necessarily only physical living.

Living is living. And we could easily be living without it necessarily being physical at a particular time this of course would have to do them with our ability to accept the teaching that deals with survival survival of consciousness now if we are going to accept the theories of evolution as given in the spiritual teachings we pretty much are going to have to accept in fact we must accept the point of view that consciousness itself whether it is alive in and through a physical vehicle or not would would have to be a continuing living something something. Otherwise there'd be no room for this whole concept of evolution. In other words, if your consciousness came not to be after it's had itself an incarnation or so, then we couldn't really call it evolution of consciousness, basically, because consciousness consciousness couldn't keep evolving if it was negated as such, if suddenly it was not.

Therefore, accepting survival is a very important aspect of accepting evolution. There are some people who think, because they've read a few scientific books or been taught a few scientific so-called facts. They think that evolution could be something that takes place without survival.

Well, this is one of the greatest delusions of all.

And of course, atheists have the most intense idea in that direction. And I ought to know, remember, amongst the various things that I've been, and not been, when we come to atheism I must confess thoroughly to my religious atheism at one time I went through three and a half years of it if you want the exact length of time I was that stupid so I had three and a half years of being about as stupid as any creature can be because to look at evolution at all at life progressing from one stage to another to just look at one little something being born and progressing because it's progressing if a baby is born or any little creature and then it grows it progresses it grows from having been dependent within the womb to growing a greater and greater independence, in other words, developing less dependence in one area and more independence for itself in another area, if you watch just a phenomenon like this take place, you have to be calling growth, believe it or not, you have to be calling it evolution.

The one little creature, whatever that is, even the one little blade of grass.

Why? Because it comes into being as an organized group of livingnesses, organizing itself for a larger livingness to hold it, control it, move it, and finally get it to functioning in a way that is more complex, more trained, more extraordinary, therefore more of a miracle. Hasn't it ever occurred to you how utterly inexplicable it is that anything should just suddenly come into being or seem to suddenly come into being, anything whatsoever, and continue in an orderly sequence.

Just an orderly sequence in itself says consciousness is orderly, automatically.

The movement of the vehicle of consciousness is orderly.

Obviously when a baby goes from age one hour to age one day and then age one year and then age 21 years haven't you seen a process of evolution taking place? This is true of any living creature remember we've been watching something come into being out of apparent disorder we have seen order take place and grow and take control of whatever it is that is taking control of and then because we're not very smart some of us say well I don't believe in god I believe in evolution of course but that's just automatic you see whatever that means or that's just nature, just nature, whatever that means.

And you have minds that throw out the most extraordinary realities that are right there under their noses, without having stopped to think that the moment you have anything that is orderly, You have something that is saying, mind is, life is.

Movement is moving in accordance with a carefully drawn out plan. You know, like an architect drawing up the plan for a house. You have your plan for the house before the house gets built. Mind has the plan for its house before it gets built but imagine the kind of building taking place vehicles growing they take materials apparently out of nothing and you have mystery and miracle collect upon mystery and miracle and you don't say to yourself my god how can this be see the things we should be more aghast at than words can tell are the things we just take for granted because unfortunately we have a way of forgetting that a thing is a miracle just because it's happening under our noses we don't know that we are living in continuous miracle we're living in continuous impossibility because it's utterly impossible for atoms to gather themselves together what they say, hey atom, come on over here and join me and together let's become an atom of electricity and we'll go bzzz at somebody and have some fun how do they what makes things come together in such an orderly manner manner and be able to repeat this orderliness. This is even more. Imagine, it isn't just being orderly, but there's a kind of extraordinary order where it can be replicated, at least up to a point.

The fact that it can't be a hundred percent replicated is in itself another miracle upon upon an unbelievable miracle.

So whichever way you turn, there's an incomprehensible miracle there, utterly, absolutely incomprehensible.

Not the mind of a disciple, not the mind of a probationer, not the mind of an initiate, not the mind of an adept or even the mind of a master can really give you a full comprehensibility, no matter how much you want it, because it goes that much beyond anything that we can remotely cope with.

Only the divine, all-inclusive cosmic mind can cope with it, and this is our assumption. For all we know, God is saying, yeah oh my heavenliness oh my heavenliness that I am oh you know because it can't say oh my god since it is God it hasn't got a God so it has to say oh my selfhood oh my selfhood you know oh my vast selfness what in the world have I got here in my I am-ness it would have to be saying it somewhat somewhat like that, in an attempt to understand its own beingness. But it can. Of course, it's obviously drawn up ways and methods where it can comprehend in sections. And that's where we get this individuality, the evolution of individualities, of consciousnesses that join together, and through their cooperation, another miracle. The minute you have things organizing together, you have a miracle because here you have indication of mind. Only mind can organize things together.

And people who are proud of their atheism aren't realizing that they're announcing that they're morons.

You know, when they think they're atheism, yes. Here, oh, I thought I was really making pronouncements of great intelligence intelligence, when I would take after anybody who had the unmitigated gall to use the word God around me, unless it was just a nice cuss word, you know, like God bless it, but not the word bless the other one. That to me was the only proper use during my three and a half years of intensely religious atheism. I'm so glad I outgrew that, but it was hard. It was hard outgrowing I can tell you well now then we we're all familiar with much of the teachings or most of the teachings that deal with how consciousness evolves from its first primeval steps at least we've taken it up in different courses and we will be doing it again in different talks you know we like to change gear here and there, sometimes deal with one part of the tree, sometimes another, and sometimes we like to try to give you a sort of quick glance at the schemata of the tree, at the, in other words, at the different levels of consciousness within evolution that involve the human levels of growth.

Now with a human being as you've heard me say before you always have that point and every human being comes to it sooner or later where from being just one of a whole group of mass minds that just take up from the mass mind it's both its genetic uh thinking and feeling and memory it's um it's group and social thinking and feeling and memory all the little things you get from others we all human beings go through that portion of evolution where in a way you cannot really say they're fully individualized I mean they are growing towards in towards towards understanding that they're individual. But they're not yet able to comprehend their own individuality as such because they're still very much like the sheep that are herded together every day. You know, they're herded into a place to chew some grass or what have you. Then they're herded back and all the sheep follow each other they do not vary but then here and there you could come to individuals who aren't going to be doing or following the expected thing something has taken place where whatever they see or think or feel something is driving them in other words when you reach a certain level of complexity That complexity itself starts your mind whirling in a new direction.

It starts you going in a kind of more rapid spiral.

The complexity does.

Because the mass mind type of individual is just going to be thinking in a mass mind manner. In other words if there's a lynch taking place they'll all get pulled into it emotionally they haven't got enough strength of their own individuality to refuse to receive what's going on in the mass the strong intensity of the thinking and feeling of the mass is too great.

And so they fall into the traps continuously.

They don't realize that there are traps, but they continuously fall into the traps of accepting from the mass mind what is moral, what is good, what is evil. And we know how some of the nicest people, nice if they're by themselves, to what low degraded activities they can fall.

You know, if they get caught up in the emotionalism of a group who say so-and-so, you know, is a robber or a thief or a murderer and everybody gets caught up and they say, you know, lay them low, kill them, and they all get a big emotional bang. They get intoxicated with their goodnesses against that individual's badness and with the need to eliminate it out, away.

And suddenly there you have a group of people falling down to their lowest common denominator.

Because any time you get a group of people together, unless you've become, a probationer first and from that from the probationer aspect but you sometimes don't know you are in fact you often don't know you are you become a probationer first and a probationer in terms of discipleship whether you have evolved into the ability and capacity to develop your your strength of thinking and feeling so that you can resist that which is inpouring from the lowest common denominator. Remember how Qabalah keeps telling you at all times that man shares the vital soul with the animal consciousness.

In other words, that which we call subconsciousness we share this with all living creatures whether we know it or not whether we like it or not this is what is called the vital portion of life of everything that lives in other words it is that that which is expressed from the unity of life itself.

And out of the unity of life we have various groups, like dogs, you know, they express their livingness in dogness, and cats who express their livingness in catness, and flowers and flower and flowerness, trees and tree-ness. But all of this really is part of that foundation because you know the seed gives birth to its own kind as you heard that gorgeous frother jacob tell you you know everything gives birth to what it is if it is poisoned it's going to give birth to its own kind of poison and if it is pure it'll give give birth to its pure seed.

It all depends on what we are within ourselves and how strongly we have become that particular something. So evolution of humanity is not exactly what it seems. Lots of people have lots of ideas. But the truth of the matter is that when we are thinking of the evolution of humanity, when it's becoming ready to take on the discipline and the training that goes beyond average Homo sapiens or the average person. You have there an individual who has had to go through various incarnations where the intellect has developed enough. Now, a developed intellect doesn't mean they're necessarily going to be super-educated. You know, in college, we have plenty of educated morons, as we know, that come out of college. And we have some pretty fantastically good minds that have managed to educate themselves in a more profound manner. This we know, too. Of course, to be able to have both, it'd be better. In other words, to have the value of social education provided that we don't accept what we're being educated to accept.

And I hope you heard that one.

Because you're taught all kinds of nonsense in your colleges and your universities.

And I mean, what you're taught is, from my point of view, pretty inhuman as well as unhuman a good part of the time. Anyway human beings do reach a point where they have to have developed a certain degree of intellect that can analyze accurately and they have to have gone through certain experiences you know within their own personal field of of energy of consciousness where they where they have strong feelings about things see you some try to teach you that uh you know since moderation is so highly thought of you should carefully uh see to it that you don't have strong feelings well if you don't have strong feelings as I've told you before you could just plain going to be spiritually anemic and how you're going to accomplish anything that way I don't know oh, that's pretty impossible.

You have to have, your aspiration comes out of strong feelings. Now, we make the mistake of thinking that the intensity of primitive feeling is the same as the intensity of highly developed types, or older soul types of feeling. And they're not, they're very different.

There is different in some ways as day and night. The only thing that they seem to share is the intensity. But there's a kind of intensity that is extraordinarily controlled. Controlled, and there's the intensity that controls you and goes the primitive way and damages and has a set of codes and ethics that are not part of what that which we might call the old soul, if we want to, would have. So you can't, even though you have the word intensity, could be used for the two types. Don't make the mistake when you see somebody who's just plain primitive in their emotions and diabolical in the things they're capable of doing don't make the mistake of equating them with the kind of emotions that really care that uh you know feel with such intensity that sometimes they just practically don't know how they can bear to live You have that kind of intensity. And that's the kind of intensity that becomes a disciple.

You're not going to have any highly evolved adept or master take on a disciple who hasn't developed the ability to care, to plain care. So in order to become what we call the probationer, that is being looked over for serious discipleship.

There are certain group of things that you will find in the individuals, though some people might not think they're there. Some people are so well controlled that they may seem not to have any feelings at all. And yet they may have fantastically intense feelings, but they are able to control them and even hide them. You know, scorpions are like that. You watch out.

Scorpions are very intense, and they can hide it.

And that's one of the reasons that people don't understand scorpions as well. If you remember that, you'll understand them a lot better.

Well, maybe not a lot, but better.

Which is something.

So, aspiration requires intense caring, intense feeling. You cannot get this kind of controlled intensity unless you've gone through a lot of pain.

Evolution, therefore, we gave you a group of words, but we're thinking of evolution as it regards man.

You must realize, then, that evolution requires a soul, not necessarily how many incarnations this soul has had but how completely has this soul been able to live and learn and try and care and have had the courage to take calculated risks in order to find out about things you have souls that are so afraid of pain I don't blame them but they're so afraid of pain that they won't take any risks at all and they start in a way like committing spiritual suicide you know like say you lose a beloved pet and it just absolutely breaks you up because you love that pet so you'll say never again never again I'm not going to put myself through that I'm not going to let myself go through that again see now that's what you call copping out and attempting to start developing spiritual suicide now would you have thought of that but that's what it is because when you get so busy trying to protect yourself from being hurt when it regards love and tenderness and care, then what you're really doing is withdrawing yourself.

You're weakening your capacity to feel, to care, to give shelter, you know, to love, and therefore certainly you are destroying your chances to receive the kind of love that would help you to experience fulfillment in at least some areas of your life, because we have different ways of loving as well as different ways of living.

To become a probationer then, which is not on the group of words I used, but you know now what I mean, you have to have had enough preliminary experiences in your preliminary lifetimes usually it involves having been through many different races because no one who has been just fixated in one race remotely has developed enough complexities to be able to have had an opportunity to pick up all the positives of that race in order to bring about the the most complex and helpful group of traits that aid in evolution so point number one you want to remember is if you feel anti any race uh that's automatically going to weaken your ability to be accepted by the powers that be for the hastening of your evolution.

In other words, you are not going to be able to take as much of your evolution in hand as you would like, because that's one of the things that the hierarchy thinks more strongly about than almost any other, and that is any in inward feelings of discrimination against any kind of race or color or nationality I mean of course we should hate whatever social group expresses hate when I say hate I mean in the positive sense like you pick up the sword of gebura which is severity and justice and you go after the demoniacal energies that are involved there discipleship takes place for you to whatever degree or you start being prepared for it to whatever degree you start training yourself to want good and to want benevolence for all races all creeds all types you can't just say to yourself well I want salvation or benevolence or aid to come to this this and that group but not this other group because they're just all of everyone born in that group are just demons you'd be amazed you'd be be amazed how many people feed hate like the people who feed you into the hatreds towards the Jewish people, the Jewish people who kept Qabalah safe for you out of love for the for the evolution of man nor can you go about saying well I think that anyone who isn't colored white is less evolved they're more primitive you can't go about saying that sort of thing either because certainly it isn't even true there's no group of any kind more highly evolved than any other group in terms of race you do have certain social groups where the majority might be more one thing than another but just as groups not as race or creed or nationality and if you don't remember that you'll find that even though you may make certain amount of great on the past you're going to fall and great will be the fall thereof.

That is the perhaps strongest point that is made by the hierarchy.

And remember, anyone who's achieved a high level in the hierarchy has very definitely not only been through all the races, but is very happy to see they must come back to take on whatever race will do the most good for the most people in the mission they're going to have. Of and it's just that simple and just what you find beautiful well beauty is in the eyes of the beholder and that's the only place it is in any case well you have to have reached a point where even though you may not remember it consciously you have had so much pain isn't that a sad thing to have to have had pain before you can become a real aspirant but you have to have reached a point where you've had so much pain in past incarnations that the last thing in the world you want is for any other group or type to be put in positions of suffering and that even includes incidentally creatures those who go out and kill torture maim experiment you know on creatures they aren't even remotely able to become receptive to the kind of intense energies that the adepts and masters project.

It would shatter them.

Some people think that the beings with more highly intense vibrations are keeping away from them for reasons that are very erroneous.

Anyone that has the vibrations of a master or even of a highly developed adept is shattering to the aura of people who are filled with hate did you know that? The people who are filled with hate and they don't even have to be filled with a super intense hate just if they're the kind of people that go in for a lot of hating they would find themselves so shaken up that some of them might even snap mentally and therefore your most highly evolved types stay away from average homo sapiens out of compassion to keep them going until they get strong enough to start getting rid of the demoniacal energies that they've been holding to themselves. A disciple becomes a disciple when he or she has been watched for a long time. You may think that it happens all on the outer plane, but it doesn't. When you reach a point of readiness, something happens in one of your finer vehicles where a light comes on. And it was there before weekly, but it comes on. It sort of takes on an extra or wattage your light becomes brighter and there are always individuals that's one of their jobs from the hierarchy on the inner planes and incidentally it doesn't mean they're dead because while the body sleeps you know the soul can also do work and lots of people do a lot of spiritual work while the body is sleeping you always have a certain number of people that are like watchers on the watchtowers and they're keeping an eye open they you know they have like territories that they're assigned to and did you know that they are and for more than one thing even for instance those of you who are already disciples uh there are others more highly highly developed disciples, a little older, more trained, who have a territory that includes so many disciples that they keep an eye on to see whether they're adding wattage or losing wattage.

Yes, and it's reported.

It's reported. Do you think it's that much different on the inner planes? The inner planes don't really look too much different than the outer plane, except it really doesn't look too much different except for the ease of traveling and you know across the more tenuous mind stuff but to most people it looks pretty much the same that's why a lot of people die and don't know they died and that's that gets very much of a problem and some Some people die and they've been married before and then remarried. And if they all come over at the same time, you have some pretty cute little conditions take place there. I ought to tell you a few of them that I know about that they will verify. They really can be quite hilarious, although it can also be quite sad.

But anyway, there is this light that comes up. It becomes brighter. And the minute that happens, and it gets reported, there's a sign to you, someone who you might say is your teacher. Now that isn't the someone who's going to stay your teacher, who's going to be your teacher on these inner planes to start preparing you for further development and growth. And what is it they do? Believe it or not they take you to lectures honest honest they do they take you you know you have you can be and they take their they take various souls to lectures some are incarnated some are are discarnated. That doesn't, they mingle very freely together. You know, while the body sleeps, there are lots of various things can be done. Sometimes there's a special lecture where it's like the professor of the, you know, the top professor of the university comes. And then you have a real piling together of a vast lecture platform. But the lectures Lectures aren't like lectures you hear on the physical plane.

There's a different quality about them.

Telepathic rapport to the principles and the meanings are more readily available, and they keep swishing around in the most extraordinary way. It's like interacting with light and with color and variation of colors and sounds. You know the ideas are taken in in much vaster sort of bundles even reading you're taken believe it or not now you're taken to libraries while you're in this sort of early this disciple state but that even later depends on which library is involved you've taken to the elementary libraries first and so on there are different degrees of what is open to you because different degrees of what you can take in to yourself well then, you're taken to these lectures and you meet others on the inner planes that are also interested in that particular field and are karmically being helped and trained in the particular school that you are being taught in because this takes place not only with Qabalah, in case you'd like to know.

This happens with several other schools of metaphysics where you have, because up to a certain point demands evolution, you have these different schools of thought that man requires because he isn't open to any larger one. When you're brought to the Qabalistic teaching training system, you're able to synthesize most of the other schools of thought by then. You will have developed a much higher mental emotional ability and capacity but anyway you're you are assigned a teacher a special teacher and this teacher is evolving through whatever group has been assigned to him or her for guidance and teaching and this teacher will come and take you I said to lectures, we'll take you to libraries and we'll teach you how to move with greater ease in the tenuous field of mind stuff so that you don't get stuck or don't find yourself trapped in certain vibratory levels that you can't handle. And that incidentally is a fantastic aid to you when you pass on when you've been taken into the discipleship which is that advanced because that's a rather advanced acceptance usually it's because you've already had some discipleship training previously that you can be assigned that easily and readily otherwise there's a much longer probationary period which I might tell you about my next talk on this series that I'm just going to start now for my Sundays.

But you're taken to various lectures, and interestingly enough, lots of people have seen them. When Jacob first started to come here, he was very much astonished, because he would be sitting, he used to like to sit there in the back, and all of a sudden he uh he couldn't uh make out what was happening because light would start shining with extra intensity and brightness and all of a sudden there he realized that there was this vast amphitheater so vast that he couldn't even see the end of it and he'd see people uh coming to it he didn't know whether they were alive or dead but just vast how long did that happened to you for about a couple of years when he first uh came here and then there were lots of people here who used to come and tell me the same thing also I remember just before I met dr case I was still going on and this was a very funny thing because at that time I had a friend who who was very, very psychic, and she also had ideas, political ideas, in which she was very fixated, and it so happened that I also had political ideas, and I was also fixated, and our fixations were in opposite directions.

But we were very good friends, and much to my astonishment, one day she said to me, well she said uh I see that you're in a vast amphitheater here and I don't know why uh these patriotic figures she named three very well-known ones that have passed on I don't know why they should be here with you because you're obviously in a very disturbed state in your politics and have to become and have to become reformed but maybe on your spiritual level you're more reasonable because I see these very well-known political figures from the past who had a great deal to do with the development and evolution of this country. They're here, and I see teachers bringing their disciples, and they're bringing them by the masses, all of it. I can't see the end of it. And she was just, she said, this is very strange. I simply don't understand it. And I was very surprised that she could see something that complimentary to me when she was so sure that I was almost going to land in hell if I didn't change my political thinking. You know how emotional people get in relation to that.

But the thing that was so interesting to me about that particular time was the fact that Master R who is really the head of our whole aspect of teaching and training you know of the secret wisdom of Israel Master R is also the one who is in charge of the evolution of this planet and very specifically works with governments with all the governments of the world in order to try to help bring about a furtherance to the evolution of man because remember we're headed for a brotherhood of man. That's absolutely inexorable in the evolution of humanity.

The healing of the nations includes the brotherhood of man.

And this is what Master R is in charge of so that everything that would take place involving him, you would expect to be in line with the political thinking of my friend since she was so sure she was right and I was wrong. But I found out later when I met Dr. Case, very shortly after, that it was Master R in charge of all of this particular school of teaching and training. And I was very amused by the fact that he or she brought me a verification before I met Master R on the really intense level that I did. But you see, I was working with Master R on the inner planes before I knew it consciously and that's one of the things I wanted to tell you. You are also working on the inner planes, so many of you and you do not know it consciously you don't need to as a matter of fact when you remember some things consciously it interferes it just plain interferes with your growth it's always better for it to take place within just the mind and knowledge of the soul and then you're able to accomplish a great deal more than you would have the other way most people get over fascinated with what they're accomplishing while the body sleeps but once you've passed the disciples stage and have become an initiate you definitely work on the inner planes and you're definitely working in a very intense manner and indeed sometimes when you are under under the impression that you haven't had any sleep at all because you've been restless, you've been working more intensely than you think. It's just that particular vehicle, just like right now you have your spiritual vehicles, but you're not aware of them, but they're working. Do you know why you sit here? If you have somebody under your wing, that's been put under your wing as a test for you perhaps even as well as teaching for some probationer.

You could be called on right now. You could be sitting here listening to me and one of your vehicles could have projected a portion of itself over, say, Timbuktu and be working there.

And the reason this could happen and does happen is because we are not the isolated beings we think we are.

You see, our other vehicles are not that fixated to this time and this place.

And that's one of the reasons we can accomplish so much in aiding the entire hierarchy in the growth process, because the more we learn here on this conscious level and aspire and try to bring about as much transmutation in ourselves and to emanate as much evolutionary positiveness to others, the more that we do that, strange as this may sound, the more do we develop the ability to control all of our subtle vehicles with intense adequacy when we drop this physical body. In other words, right now, while you are within incarnation, those of you who are already initiates, and I'll talk about that next time on this series I'm giving right now, those of you who are already initiates, you're already being trained to serve in a more intense manner.

Furthermore, you are already being tested and tried for further work so as to be given more spiritual responsibility.

And most of you don't know it. Here and there, some of you may have a little subtle, very subtle awareness.

And to have the awareness is unimportant. Because I pointed out before having it actually makes you so fascinated that you could lose the very thing you want to be gaining but one thing you can be sure if you are already being sent around like that with portions of your vehicle being able to project and return then that it means that you are under test test for being initiated into the next step of whichever step you are. Those who are already highly developed disciples are given the first probationary disciples to put under their care that they work with. Those that are already highly developed, extra highly developed disciples are being taught by initiates how to utilize the things that you're studying, the chants, the various methods.

You're being taught how to use all these various methods in order to be able to bring about a greater change in the group minds around the world, like one of you might be in a group of say a hundred that are have been given the job of meditating on say the arabs another view might have been given uh a work but always under the direction of your teacher of the time and your teacher of the time by the way doesn't remain remain that way always. Once they go to another step, you take on different obligations, you get different teachers. The teacher that remains with you for untold numbers of incarnations is the teacher you receive or have received in any one of the incarnations previously previously after becoming an initiate once you are an initiate in the mysteries then you have a teacher that you you have a lifelong no not lifelong I mean eons long a connection with and that teacher you will recognize wherever you go you may not know this is my teacher but you You will have this sudden sense of recognition.

Some of you may have two or three teachers because some of you may be in training in more than one area of your personality or more than one vehicle because, say, of having special talents.

And those of you who have more than one teacher actually are in preparation to integrate more than one method. Regarding the traditional teaching. Say, suppose you had been mostly a devotee of, like, bhakti yoga, or you'd suppose you'd been mostly a devotee of something similar to dhanana yoga.

And suppose something in you has grown enough so that your inner mind, your higher mind, mind has come to recognize the fact that your love nature and the part of your nature that is seeking wisdom and the power of wisdom to apply for evolutionary aids uh if you have developed both of those portions of your being and you've been working on them carefully then you will be be put in a position where you will be able to integrate them into one way and it'll be like a major initiation will take place for you and there are ways to recognize that which perhaps I'll be able to talk to you about god willing in my next talk but anyway you can see then that when we come to adepts and masters we're still going up the steps of the human being evolutionary plan here Here amongst us, I can assure you, we have everything up to minor adepts or minor adepts in the making, whether you know it or not.

Now, if you want to start wondering which you are, you're right. Go ahead. I'll help you to try to analyze it as we proceed with the series.
