It's time for our talk. The title is Divine Self, Ruler of the Body. While our beloved Frater Marian was singing that tender melody, I couldn't help feeling with every fiber of my being how complete completely, that song actually brings to mind the fact that the body, that which we call the body, anybody's body, everybody's body, in other words, that which we think of as physical that this truly is the immaculate conception of the Most High and as we know in Qabalah this has been taught through so many millennia in other words true understanding of the whole idea that involves the Divine Divine Mother really is giving us a message beyond comprehension and yet a message that every single one of us can attune ourselves to if only we work at it properly, in the proper manner. Because you see, Maria really comes from the Hebrew word maria, which means, incidentally, Bitter Seas. Did you know that? Bitter Seas. It's somewhere in the Lessons.

And it has to do with the idea, and by bitter, the whole implication is that the divine substance takes upon itself the determination to place itself within constrictions, within restrictions, In order to grow the divine robe of Adonai, shall we say the garb of the Most High, or the garbs of the Most High. And too much too often those who think that they have a certain amount of spiritual insight or perception have a way of sharply dividing the manifested universe which in Qabalah is something to be revered and taken care of with beauty and gratitude too often from ignorance of course they divide away that which we call the manifested world the manifested universe that includes our physical bodies from the ideas of God the ideas of the divine the ideas of the divine essence the divine divine substance as well as the divine motion.

Yet within the entire Qabalistic teaching, within the entire Western Mystery School of Training, we keep reiterating over and over again in as many ways as it can be done, the basic principle that involves livingness itself. In other words, on the Qabalistic tree of life, the one, the indivisible, which we chant as a heya, because that is the background word of power out of which this teaching comes, remember, that word and the others that are developments from it.

This one, this indivisible, which is the above, the white crown, in Qabalah it is stated over and over again that this one called Kether the crown is in Malkuth which is called the kingdom that's the very bottom of the tree and Malkuth the kingdom is in Kether that's the very top of the tree but after a different manner this is stated in alchemy was stated by Hermes it is a part of the entire higher teaching and indeed in order to achieve the evolution which is our goal and our eventual destiny what we have to do is to consciously bring that one that indivisible that knowledge of the unity of the self that crown we have to bring it into our physical body awareness we have to learn how to walk on what people call earth any kind of earth and to recognize this as being the stool of God we have to learn how to look and that which other people call physical physical things, to see them as the manifested glory of God, the robes of Adonai, because Adonai, remember, is that word which is used for the Divine One in its manifested power.

And it's not a different Divine One, it is just a different way of seeing that Divine one we see each other in so many different ways for example you see me as a teacher when we're too social perhaps together perhaps you add another aspect to the way you see me sometimes it may please you and then again it may not please you if you form certain habit patterns which make you decide that this is not something that you wish to admire and this is true of all of us you know where by deciding ahead of time how anything and everything should act we decide we have a framework upon which to criticize and of course this always makes us feel more important and that's very pleasant so we go along dividing away with our consciousness something which actually is not divided we look upon each other and we think gee now that person's body is there my body is here and we look it up and down and decide whether we're going to like that body you know there was a time when if you weighed under 300 pounds and you were a female and in certain places in the world it's probably still that way if you were under that you would be unmarriageable you'd be considered so undernourished and skinny and how could you be a comfort to your husband then so no one would propose to you you know because real beauty being in the eyes of the beholder involved having as much of the robes of Adonai added unto ourselves as we could manage to carry then again it at this point for quite a while it has been you might say we have all been brainwashed into feeling that unless every bone shows why we are utterly beyond the pale physically speaking and so we develop self-hatred regarding regarding our body because it isn't in harmony with what others have said.

It's supposed to be beautiful.

And so we look in the mirror and we'll moan and we'll groan, Oh dear God! Of course we don't realize that maybe this is the way God wants it. So we start complaining to God, not even realizing that this is exactly what we're doing. Look I can't even get into my size 8 or 10 or 12 or 16 or whatever it is and we just practically wring our hands in despair we walk along the street we know that if anyone looks at us they're thinking gee how sloppy, how fat, how unattractive, how undesirable and oh we emanate like mad you know this self-disapproval especially regarding the body because a certain amount of people have decided this the only you are not beautiful nor are you even healthy unless your bones are jab your husband and or your wife during slumber period and there are some who secretly think this isn't the way they'd like to have it at all but they're they're afraid to speak out because here again we get conditioned and we go along with we feel that if we say well I don't agree with uh this really indicating healthiness or beauty uh we're afraid people are going to look at us which and indeed they will with startled superiority on their faces thinking to themselves my what horrible horrible tasty this crackpot or maybe this is a way they rationalize or alibi so we don't dare speak out even if we disagreed too often and sometimes we just speak out against anything because we enjoy the excitement of disagreeing that's something else again this I'm not referring to that principle at the moment at any rate our attitude towards our bodies and other people's bodies certainly are not in harmony most of the time with the spiritual teachings of the ancients as they relate to evolution to achievement of the highest spiritual goals. Remember, unlike our Eastern brethren, who we love very deeply indeed, those of us who are responsible for the Western tradition and the Western training methods, we stress the importance of bringing every spiritual concept possible into manifestation in and through the physical world the physical vehicle because we feel that this is the entire motion of the divine will and indeed all we have to do is look to see that all of physical life has been pushing forward pushing forward with each form becoming more and more complex the more complex the form the more consciousness can the divine express in and through that form you see no matter how much beautiful music I may have in me if I do not have the proper vocal cords you're going to get a croak I have to have the instrument in and through which to express it if I wanted to express it through my voice I wanted to express it through some other type of instrument like a violin or an organ or piano I would have to go in for the discipline of being taught and trained to utilize certain forces in a special way and what would happen my body would change certain muscles would become stronger everyone knows that if you want to have strong hands that well perhaps not everyone but most people know if you want to have really strong hands become a pianist I remember our beloved Felix Frazier when he took something in his hands and squeezed them.

It was fantastic. Why? Because he had practiced piano since he was a very small child. And so the entire shape of the hands, the musculature of the hands, they were different from those who have not done this with their hands and fingers. This is the same in every realm of life we do not seem to realize the fact that every activity brings certain changes and development to the body and then through the body the self, the divine self is able to express more and more adequately that which is there potentially potentially and not until it is expressed Can you say that one has had?

The fulfillment for example We say well why should many people say why should it be necessary to go through all of this physical? Aspect of experience, you know, all I want to do is evolve a waste. I don't need a body anymore. I hear so many aspirants talk that way well what they're really saying is I hate the divine robe of adonai though they don't know they're saying this they think that being spiritual means that they are not going to require a body whereas true reverence and love for the most high in actuality makes us exalt in the body anybody and makes us see this as a glory of god that's why on the qabalistic tree of life malcolm the kingdom is called the resplendent intelligence you know that it gives you the idea of a radiation of light however this morning what we're supposed to be discussing is tarot key number seven and incidentally we have been discussing it except we didn't use the symbols exactly as they are shown on the Tarot key.

We were trying to give you certain principles first, an abstract idea that we could take and then we could project it in and through the symbols in order to help us remember these principles and ideas more adequately. Tarot key number seven as we see uh shows someone who is very evidently a ruler and that is the symbol for our higher self or the divine self and this ruler is very apparently driving a chariot now the chariot itself is the symbol for the body your body my body anything physical a star a planet the moon if it is physical it is a body it is a material or organization a rock after all is an organization of certain atoms which we can call a special type of manifestation of the divine divine substance, everything physical, incidentally, the very fact that it is physical, is an organization of something. And organization automatically and immediately then indicates that there has to have been an organizer to organize it.

Often we point out to you if there were not that divine creator, if there were not that divine creative aspect of our consciousness we could have no physical anything in and through which to experience in and through which to express because nothing that is organized can organize itself only consciousness organizes consciousness builds think of the fantastic Fantastic organization and cooperation takes place within any physical vehicle for it to serve as an instrument. It is miraculously fantastic.

And indeed the same is true of things we think are inanimate, like a rock.

Think of the organization of special types of atoms. You know, there are certain types of atoms have to fall in love with other atoms.

And they link into each other. And some of them fall in love so solidly that it's almost impossible to separate them. Some seem to be not very, shall we say, deep. Maybe they're looking over the field of manifestation.

And so they link very lightly. And it's very easy to just get them pulled apart. Some other atom can come along and just, shall we say, charm them away or entice them away from their linkage. And suddenly the substance that was being expressed there is gone and you have a different substance.

So perhaps this is the first type of outer plane physical experience, that very primeval substance, divine substance, starts putting itself through in order to discover what it's like to be expressing in all these various ways. But when we come to this miracle of organization when we come to this fantastic wondrousness of what goes on in what we call living matter like the vehicle the body that we carry when we come to that we have come to what we certainly all recognize as being the very highest manifestation that consciousness has built on this planet up to this point.

And indeed, capacity-wise, it is like unto God, as we are told in Genesis, although, of course, age-wise we have not yet achieved this perfection. And when we work at understanding the full implication of what tarot key number seven is saying we study the lessons we receive through the mail when we recognize that canopy overhead is what that is our story that's the starry heaven that is always over us when we realize that even though we think we walk on earth, actually we are members of the heavens, are we not?

We always have, our chariot always has as its canopy every star in the universe. Just walk outside at night and take a look, that is, if it isn't smoky, of course, or foggy or cloudy, but even that has its miracle.

And we realize that whatever consciousness is aware of, that is really a part of the magic of body, the magic of physical things.

Now, what are we supposed to learn to do about this? Of course, I know, I've gotten the thought from a couple of you, oh yes, how are you supposed to love your body when it has this and that wrong with you, and when it really goes into this and that kind of aspect, condition, etc. etc., how can you love your body when it has these things all wrong? Well, it depends on what we call right and what we call wrong. First of all, we have to change our ideas as to what our body is.

You know, one of those beautiful astronauts quoted for the three, when I consider the heavens the works of thy fingers?

What is man?

What indeed is man?

Man is the most fantastic miracle when I consider the works of thy fingers. Do you realize that if you would look upon yourself not as a person with a body existing existing just in this particular time and place, but as an aspect of God, which you are. And of course you know it intellectually, sometimes you know it in the midst of study and meditation for a flash. When I say know, I mean to know it most of the time, or a good part of the time. Do you realize that the body then, your body, my body, all bodies, would not look like they are? For example, suppose you try to trace the shape of your body in terms of all the bodies you've had in past incarnations to reach this point.

What shape would it have?

In other words, suppose you let your imagination just go upward a bit to that canopy of P7. what is the real shape of the body is the shape of the body just that which we're experiencing in this instant or is it all the past that ever was and all the present and all the future that can become alright let's put it to you another way you know we're thinking about what is what is the body what is our body let's put it another way suppose you were put in a position which incidentally you are as the poor little horses used to have done to them when we were being drawn by horses and carriages they put the what they called what blinders did they call them you know so that the horse couldn't see the to the right or to the left it had to its vision was limited to just the forward feel now then to that horse images to the right and left as it went along were impossible they didn't exist oh here come my gorgeous bride and groom we had the most fabulous wedding last Sunday here Beautiful, one of my colorful loves.

Well, makes me get all exalted again and remember that I am an eternal bride.

As you well know, you know. Now, there's a good example also that I will give you. We were just showing, first of all, the shape of the body, how we can limit ourselves in thinking about its shape or what it is or is not when we are within a specific incarnation and then of course our consciousness is traveling within a specific second or moment of time we are looking at self and at the world through this very keyhole view you you know it's like being down in the valley not only in the valley but in the valley with blinders and with just a little pinpoint through which to look and we look at something and we say this is the shape it is but it isn't because we're just seeing a part of it now if that little opening from the blinders if that is made larger are you enlarging your opening dear psychically if we were to make that opening a little larger uh it would have a different shape again you know uh take the shape of a fly we think a fly is an ugly thing and if we We had a certain instrument on our eyes where, and the fly was just standing still, and we say we could only see one hundredth of the fly.

Do you think we'd know the shape of that fly?

Suppose we were in motion and we moved our head back and forth. We think we're looking at separate things. We'd have no way of knowing it's a one piece. And suppose the fly was in motion. Then it would be things that are different again. The shape would be utterly different. You are all familiar with the story told about the five blind men all feeling an elephant and giving a different description, with the trunk being like a pipe and the tail being like a rope and the legs being like pillars on the side of walls. Say everyone described it as something different now you and I are under the illusion because at the moment our consciousness is traveling within a certain field for self-experience in order to know the detailed rapture the smaller aspects of a greater glory we're under the illusion that this is the way we look and this is just a portion of a total whole so what we would look like if you think of us as being beginningless and endless you remember what I always have to say about my age I'm either just going to be 21 and that's every year or I'm younger than the day newborn and older than eternity and that's my second dancer if they try to argue with me and that's true of all of us it's just that I like to joke about it so considering that what form do we really have if we try to take our consciousness to before time began and then try to move it when time at least as we know it here shall cease to be what is our form you see we don't know our total form yet we're hating a portion of it because we are misinterpreting misunderstanding the miracle of form and expressing in and through this portion focusing down into the details now you think I forgot about the bridegroom but I I didn't, because now I'm going to remember, for example, with my gorgeous man.

Yeah, some of you have come up to him and said, how do you stand it when she talks about you that way from the platform?

And he smiled and he said, I stand it very happily.

Your information, if it worries you.

So at any rate, with my gorgeous man, as you remember, the higher self was very, very kind to me and made it possible for him to forget his wallet so I was able to buy him. So you see, his body is my possession, you see.

And as much as I, after all, I put out cold cash. A bargain? Six dollars today.

And so there are times when he does certain things or fails to do them. I look at him with very great Gurbura anger, or Gabor Amir in real severity and say, how dare you treat my property that way? You know, after all, I insist that my property be properly taken care of.

And I do this, of course, deliberately because I know that people are taught to realize you cannot possess anything. And of course, it's true, you cannot. But how are we going to understand this and learn this truly until we know it with our insides we don't really know it at all so when we deliberately laugh when we can deliberately chuckle when we deliberately blow a thing up to its it's true laughing ridiculousness then we start seeing a more more clear picture because we stop being so serious about the things that need releasing we stop taking ourselves too seriously so you see I can very definitely frown and get very gabura-ish and demand that my property be better taken care of that he's being very privileged that I'm letting him use that which is mine etc so we can have quite a bit of uh chuckle over the fact that he who had such integrity and could not be bought that precious man of mine forgot his wallet right at the proper time isn't that oh wonderful I tell you you see this is uh the divine self loves to chuckle in through and with us when we participate properly and the truth of the matter is of course that we do not own our own bodies let alone somebody else's except I wouldn't admit it to him naturally and when we recognize that these miracles these bodies that they are actually the property of the one life of god of the higher self then we would truly start taking a little diabetic care and we would say how mysteriously lovely how unutterably exquisite the fact that I have fingertips with which to touch you know the skin my skin your skin you know and feel though the illusion of separateness is there when you touch you feel that we're not that separate after all, that we're not separate at all.

And those of us who are a bit more sensitive on some of the inner planes also experience the actual physical pain of other things. This is a very excruciatingly painful thing, but it also has its beauty, its rapture and its glory, because we experience the unity, the rapture, of the knowledge that no matter how it seems we're not really alone and it also makes us love others and protect them like ourselves as jesus admonished us all to love one another in that way and loving one another in that way has to do with recognition recognition that in some vast glory in some mysterious manner we are one we are not separated but as long as we have to feel separated or we feed the thought images of separation the thing that happens is that we develop and grow the experiences that verify the separateness you know the more we say we think other people are repulsive and and or feel that we are repulsive naturally the less popular uh do we become amongst other people then we wonder why life is so lonely we've been madly uh in a way you might say desecrating god I think in a way we might say this we have been blaspheming against the divine robes of Adonai and that includes when we have to pick against our own bodies I remember we had a few people one Easter when this, shall we say, impish sense of humor hit me in the midst of a very important period the whole recognition of this joy of relationship and participation when that one Easter morning my precious daughter and two little grandsons all dressed so beautifully they came in late of course they were going to try to sneak in through the back so no one would see them and you know this is what you call taking advantage of your position I took advantage of it very much so So I very imperiously beckoned them this way, so they had to walk forward and across, because I wanted to make sure that everyone looked at them, you see.

I thought they were so gorgeous, everyone had to see them. Then I became so overcome, I said, some of you were here perhaps, where I said, look, look what God and I have wrought.

You know?

And this particular feeling, it's the type of feeling all of us need to share about ourselves about ourselves as well as each other and we can promote it I know that with certain deep-seated habit patterns it becomes difficult but remember in that Tarot key we are being shown that it is the mind the mind is shown as invisible that guides those carriers of the body which keeps the chariot in motion the mind and the mind is the invisible portion it's the invisible rulership taking place via the divine self so with our minds we need to regularly correct our thinking regularly patiently lovingly to keep correcting our thinking about our body about all bodies we need to look at everybody and to realize that what one person might call beautiful another person would not and isn't this wonderful really how else would the Lord of life have the miraculous expression of multiple types of beauty and the miraculous experience.

Surely we all will agree that if everyone only loved red hair or black hair or blonde hair, the Lord of Life would be that much diminished in experience, and we are the way the Lord of Life experiences the kind of delight that I pointed out when I invited everyone to see what God and I have wrought. Of course, we have this little puppy now, you know, this little Yorkshire terrier who we call Shalom, and then we have two kittens that we're coping with also, a Siamese and an Abyssinian. And to look at their vehicles, to watch them playing, to watch them fighting. The miracle that we see, of course, whenever they're naughty, I tell my gorgeous man, your dog or your cats have done so-and-so, naturally, whenever they are behaving very beautiful, beautifully, I say my dog and my cats. And we were discussing the the question as to when we should decide they are our dog and our cats.

And this hasn't quite been decided yet. It's under concentrated meditation. We will come out with a final determination sooner or later, but it's part of the chuckle of what? Of enjoying the miracle of the divine expression in and through vehicles you and I therefore my darlings must come to some recognition sooner or later let's do it sooner that our bodies are not not only the divine role of Adonai, the Lord of the Universe, but as it says in that added new meditation in the Book of Tokens, in the revised issue of the Book of Tokens, our bodies are the harps of ten thousand strings upon which the spirit of life moveth ever. That's your body. That's my body. But it isn't your body and it isn't my body it's God's body and the Lord of the universe is playing this harp of 10,000 strings and thus we hear the song of a bird or watch a butterfly fluttering thus we look upon the mountain and a valley and a star this is the harp of 10,000 strings and thus within us we watch miracles taking place in every way shape and form and then our hearts can lift in wonder loving the body is loving all of the sensory impressions that the Lord of the universe is experiencing in listening to the symphony being played in and through us we are then in the physical level of our being the song of God and in the divine self we are that which is singing the song and building it and perfecting this harmonic symphony of interaction neither of us are alone whether we know it or not either physically mentally or emotionally let's go out then revering loving this divine robe this harp of 10,000 strings indeed and let's recognize that when it says in that meditation not thine but mine is this thy body mind for it is for me and me alone is it built for god for the lord of the universe that's who your body has been built for if we will remember that think of the extra joy and rapture we will be sharing then via this vehicle and the perfection of it to experience the one life in ever greater measure Practice it.
