This morning is Divine Grace and Sin in Mysticism, and that's why I brought up the sinning.

I was sneaking in some ideas during the announcements, you see, and even the Divine Grace, you know, like cleanup committee. at any rate we have tarot key number 16 the tower which as those of you know who are receiving the lessons if not you're going to find out now this particular tarot key the tower whose hebrew letter is pay is assigned to the pair of opposites amongst the many qabalistic attributions it's assigned to the pair of opposites called grace and sin by grace is meant of course divine grace what other grace is there grace and sin now the pair of opposites always go with the hebrew letters that are assigned to the planetary forces and this tarot key with its hebrew letter is assigned to the planetary force which we call Mars and in lots of ways I'm sure you can see this is very anyway the power of the energy of Mars is being represented here symbolically now not only is this Hebrew letter assigned to the planetary Mars and to the pair of opposites called spiritual grace and sin but it is also assigned to the mouth as the organ of speech and this is very important in order to understand the spirit of this key what it is really saying we have to keep in mind that this is assigned to the mouth as the organ of speech remember each tarot key symbolically is representing a function of consciousness, a power of consciousness.

Whatever level we are expressing this function or this power has to do with the age of our own particular soul and its karmic abilities or lack of abilities.

But still, each of these tarot keys are representing these basic inner powers or powers of our own consciousness being expressed in degree or in various degrees and in ways that have to do with our ability and capacity to express as much as we have learned from the past.

Now, when we take the number of this Tarot key, number 16, one of the first things we do in helping ourselves or in order to give subconsciousness the proper suggestion for working out the energies within us so that we can react in the most positive way. We take the numbers. The number six, as we know, is assigned to Tarot key, the Tarot key that is called the lovers.

And if you will look up to your right, there, the third Tarot key from the door, you will see the lovers the number six and i'd like you to notice that the symbols here are indicative of that which is considered the first sin remember adam and eve so that when you hear of the attribution grace and sin you see always there are certain logical associations associations, that one sees, that one comes to perceive and to experience in deeper and deeper ways. When we realize that we are guided, the mind automatically goes to the attributions that it finds logical, that is the intellectual part of the mind, and that in turn then gives the deeper part of the mind that is the higher mind the quality which makes it able to express in and through our personality more effectively so the number six which is assigned also to discrimination has imagery that shows us the figures of Adam and Eve even the things that stand behind Adam and Eve behind Adam for For example, we see the twelve flames.

These twelve flames are alluding to the twelve types of individualities or personalities, which in astrology are called the twelve signs of the zodiac. You know, we're talking about that and having some fun with it. I hope it's fun, not Thursday night in classes right now. So the 12 fruits that we see behind Adam really are showing, again, the evolution of, did you notice in the reading of the Bible, did you notice how the fruits of the tree and what the first fruits of the tree are in the way it was alluded to? did you notice the mention of the tongue and what happens when the tongue goes unbridled and so on and then the works, the action Mars is the action planet that was a fantastic reading giving the pure catalystic attributions of this key and this spirit incidentally so in here in the number 16 we have the portrayal of the meanings behind key six plus the meanings behind tarot key number one, the magician.

We all know that tarot key one, the magician, has to do with the power of attention, the power to concentrate. In other words, that which we pay attention to. And the pair of opposites in tarot key number one, Mercury, having the assignation of life and death, we instantly start to see that attention the power to concentrate is the power of life and death to that which we see as discrimination in key six and this is all brought together here in sixteen of course in another way but it brings the the attention brings life and death life and or or death, you realize, because if we use a thing negatively, it becomes death. If we use it positively, it becomes life. In other words, anything we pay attention to is something alive, and therefore alive for us within our consciousness. We could be walking through the most glorious scenery, but if our consciousness is locked inside our tower, you know, right here, the tower, if it's locked inside our tower, if it isn't focused paying attention the number one to what's going on out there like whatever the glorious scenery might be it doesn't exist for us our life isn't in it we're not living in the beauty at all we're living in the tower locked away so that uh you might say it is a death thing or a non-existent thing to us because we have locked ourselves away in the in the tower the the Tower of, which is also called the Tower of Babel, but that we'll go into in just a little while.

So 16 in itself, as number, is indicating that the power of attention gives life and or death to the discrimination, to the 12 signs of the zodiac, that means to everybody and everything, and behind Eve you'll notice the fruits five showing amongst other things the senses the senses which could even either be thought of as areas or avenues or doorways of perception which they are the way we perceive experience our eyes we use them to see in certain ways we don't all see the same thing if you hate red hair you're going to see me as having ugly hair and if you love red hair you're going to see me as having very beautiful hair I hope you love it if not I hope you'll train yourself with attention of key one use proper discrimination of key six to transmute yourself away from the prison and have delight by looking at me Now you see how noble and spiritual I am at this moment.

Now, the response then that we make to the senses hasn't as much to do with the senses, again, as it has to do with our own usage of the senses, our ability to utilize the vibrations that come in through the senses whether it's through sight whether it's through sound after all all is vibration our eyes receive vibrations and consciousness says i see so and so your one consciousness can say say i see ugliness and another say i see beauty depending on whether you like my type or not or like me or angry with me or whatnot don't you see with the same eyes mind you the same eyes in the same way with the same ears one of you might say oh what a lovely voice and another might say how horrible you know that's not feminine enough it should be a more high pitch perhaps you know and so on well i don't like what she says so again it isn't uh the power is not in the sound it is in the consciousness that is reacting responding to that sound same with touch now you can touch someone that you love and you say how delightful but if somebody that you hate touches you yeah you draw away you know how how horrible I mean the noises we can make and the unbeauty that we can show on our faces so it isn't the touch it's our own consciousness isn't it there we have the five senses behind ease then are indicating a basic way there are doorways of perception but the reaction to the doorways of perception has to do with whether we have yet attained to a capacity for what we will now call the divine grace or whether we're still reacting what we can now call sin because if you want an interpretation of what is sin and what is not sin I want to point out to you first of all that there are untold numbers of books written by untold numbers of philosophers with untold numbers of ideas as to what sin is and is not.

And basically, when we come to the true Western occult training system, we have to come to the recognition that it is not so much what, shall we say, a particular society decides, it is not so much what the code is for various cultures because after all just think there's one culture in which it would be very immoral for a woman to decide not to have more than one husband if she lives in the culture where when she marries the man she's supposed to marry all the brothers also you know depending on how many brothers there are and if she turned that down she would be very badly thought of she would be breaking the code and she'd be thought of as being a most sinful creature you don't break codes each culture decides for itself what is supposed to be sinful and what is supposed to be non-sinful. And so we even say in our present society, we come to a point where, you know, the hair splitting.

In other words, if it's legal, we're told then it isn't sinful. But if it's illegal, it's sinful.

So that you can steal everybody, deaf, dumb, and blind, as long as you do it legally.

You know, you can commit all kinds of horrors. you can perpetrate every horror upon your fellow man as long as it's done legally you see and if you have and especially if you have the power and the power mars is power if you have the power and in and through the power that means you also then control communications and i just pointed out this hebrew letter is assigned to the mouth as the organ of speech so if you have the the power, Mars, if you have the control of communications, and if you have control of the various rules, regulations, or shall we call it laws, the laws of man, so-called, how are you going to determine if you're going to follow that value system? How are you going determine what's truly sin and what perhaps is more akin to what we call grace or the grace of god well this tarot key in itself is telling it to your subconsciousness symbolically i could give classes for 20 years regularly week by week and we wouldn't remotely start to cover all the various items and aspects and conditions and situations that could be given many different interpretations.

So you see there's more than one reason why discrimination of key six is part of key sixteen or a necessity in order to receive its positive level. You notice the serpent is there too in key six.

And certainly when we think of sin we have to always remember that serpent, you know, who tempted Eve and said, gee, don't you want to be wise and smart?

You know, like the Elohim, V'yod he v'he Elohim. And she figured, gee, it would be nice to be smart, to have consciousness, and she got herself tempted.

She ate, it tasted good, she handed it to Adam. That's what we hear. Well, this is a symbolic representation of something that's rather accurate as a matter of fact, although we have to remember that it is a symbolic story of the evolution of man, the evolution of consciousness. And certainly when consciousness reaches a certain level of ability or capacity, it has to be able to start choosing to know the pair of opposites.

and to know the pair you can only know the pair of opposites when you get in there and try it you know they we keep hearing try it you'll like it oh eve eve or subconsciousness tried it and liked it and adam he tried it and liked it but all of a sudden they discovered they had another thing something had been added to their consciousness whereas they'd been living in the absolute purity of the Garden of Eden, the purity which would go pretty much like this. Suppose I haven't got any drive towards, well, let's make it a really goodie that's right in harmony with Mars, shall we? That'll also keep you from falling asleep. Now suppose that I had a very tremendous drive towards sex. Let's say that suppose I was practically next door to being a nymphomaniac. You know, suppose, imagine. Not too hard. Consciousness is very powerful, but just for purposes of analogy.

All right. Now then, my actions, and remember Mars is action, my actions would automatically go in line or it would automatically follow what the desire such a desire would be so intense there'd be no control desire would control me i could not control it so in other words no control now then other people of course who know all about what's good and bad and right and wrong would have all the various things to say depending on their culture their thinking their feeling and so on all of them might be a little right even and all of them might be a little wrong that is not the point i'm trying to present a principle here but now supposing someone who has absolutely no drive in that direction at all let's let's take another other person has or or let's take me again that way will balance me off see let's say i don't i haven't got the slightest desire i don't even know what desire is so how if i don't even know what desire is on this reproductive level i'm certainly not going to be driven my energies my action is not going to be following any intense hence desire, because I don't have it.

I wouldn't even know what it is. Never had it, let's say. Never.

If I've never had it, you can be very sure then that I'm not going to enter into whatever it is that the nymphomaniac would enter into. Isn't that so? Now, suppose there's a third person standing around and making the judgment. you know now is this a sin is this one sinful or is this a sin or is this person sinful or not now a person making the judgment just on that one level of what's done or wouldn't done would decide that the me that doesn't even know what that desire is is the most pure and marvelous and and wonderful and glorious, you know, angelic creature.

Look how pure she is. She doesn't even know the meaning of desire, such a person would say. Isn't that marvelous? And they would just look with adoration if they had real strong judgment. How marvelous and pure. But the other one, who is an infamaniac, this how horrible evil bad but is this a correct way is this real discrimination how much credit do you give a person who's never had anything to withstand in other words how tempted am i going to be to eat if i've just eaten a 10 course meal point number one or if god didn't give me a stomach and a digestive system in order to require food for survival then am i going to be rah-rah-rahed for not sitting down and being a glutton or even eating at all if i haven't if i haven't even got that function in my being so you see the idea of what we might call grace or what we might call sin isn't exactly what it seems and not until man evolves to a point where he is able to discriminate between two things or more in other words you have to experience your pair of opposites to be able to start making choices which we also call freedom him incidentally and if you don't if you haven't got or and have never had desire then certainly you don't even know what the pair of opposites are and in whatever that area is and there's no credit for control since you had nothing to control to begin with so they're wide pin metals on you you see we have a way of of just looking up to certain people who didn't have enough desire to be sinful to begin with you know and we think they're so marvelous you know where they just march around without power you see power is something that every true true master of wisdom and every true adept has, the one thing you know automatically is that someone who has attained a high degree of mystic and spiritual recognition or realization has power. They vibrate it, a magnetic vibrating energy. This is power. Now, what we do with the power with this mars power has to do with how evolved we have become and we evolve reincarnation by reincarnation by reincarnation by reincarnation i won't go on and on to how many possible ones because we might have to stay too long but the point is that a true understanding of what grace and sin would be has to do with an understanding of desire and whether a person has this depth of power or intensity within themselves or not.

Therefore, being able to discriminate or evaluate it all would have to come as a result of many incarnations of having done the wrong thing, incidentally, or by wrong thing, shall we say, the less evolved thing, or through many long incarnations of having suffered the consequences of sin. You don't get your divine grace until you've suffered your consequences for sin, and this is something people don't realize.

In other words, you don't develop the ability to say no to something that's really tempting you. You remember Tarot Key 15.

here let's take a look at this charming devil here you know now remember that's a sign to mirth and notice the chains on the figure now these human beings are worse than animals because they are beasts they have the human consciousness they're not the innocents you see adam and eve were innocent like our pets like little creatures as long as they were living in the garden of eden and not until they got to the point of evolution where they wanted to know about things. Gee, I want to know.

You know, I can't understand what you're talking about unless I know. I can tell you and tell you and tell you how absolutely fantastically delicious a peach is.

You know, but are you going to know what I'm talking about?

If you haven't tasted a peach, and the more I tell you how delicious it is, the more you're going to want to taste it. And of course, sometimes you'll taste it and you go, yuck, you mean that's delicious? Well, now at least you found out.

See, I used my mouth as an organ of speech, and I enticed you.

I enticed you into tasting that peach.

and now you know you won't have to wonder and you'll know but of course after a while you might decide hmm maybe i ought to give it another try you know i didn't like it the first time maybe i'll like it the second time so i mean here we go that's evolution and finally maybe if you decide decide you like something that actually is not good for you you'll of course be suffering these consequences and and then maybe you'll just go a full circle but that's all part of various evolutionary processes the point is that which we call sin very often has nothing to do with sin at all and we don't know what sin truly is until we've developed enough discrimination to tell the difference between words and actions between thoughts and words and actions and remember the mouth is the organ of speech is part of the entire action level of consciousness it's being attributed to mars so they're tied in very much well i want i'd like to To remind you, we do a great deal of chanting here in the temple, and in various esoteric portions of our work, we use it in other and very specialized way.

This is the power of sound. And remember, this power of sound is a part of what's thought of and meant when we talk about the power of the word. And when we have the mouth as the organ of speech here, the power, remember all of creation in genesis and god said in other words god was using god's level or the divine level of whatever we call words and this attempt to show it symbolically is given in many ways subconsciousness understands it and we're learning how to understand it consciously so we can gain control actual control only when we have have gotten to directly know about a thing and then make our choices are we truly evolving our completed humanity we're taking those chains off and we're stopping the the conduct of brutal and brutalizing conduct that we go in for out of ignorance and out of the false worshipings you know and the commandments thou shalt have no other gods before me when we worship and worship the material plane when we worship and worship physical conditions when we worship only that which is looks like between 16 and 19 years old you know make that the ideal of beauty I resent that I think it should come up to at least 21 I'm going to be that always my next birthday as you know and I kind of resent that why should I be be thought of as old just because I'm past 19 and already 20. You know, of course, 21 until my next birthday, which time I always admit to you I lied last time. To show you God has some work to do on me yet.

I shouldn't use my mouth for lying. Anyway.

So we come to see, or we have to come to see, sooner or later, and we might as well make it sooner. Why be in that state? You know, that's not a comfortable state. The divine grace comes to us only when we earn it.

Mars is a workforce. remember and we earn it only when we start developing enough discrimination and enough recognition of the evil of isolation of thinking in it that we can gain any good at the expense of another that's the isolation of this tower of babel now whether it's done legally or illegally You see, I just want to remind you again, the fact that a thing, an evil, is legal doesn't make it less evil.

If I take advantage of you, if I study all the legal ways of taking advantage of you and of humanity and figure out how I can keep my smokestack going and throwing out poisonous sulfurous fumes and all other little destructive goodies that are killing off the livingness of God, you know, by our misuse. And when it's our, you know, after all, if we give assent to these evils, if we do not do what little thing we can against these evils, that is, that which is damaging to others. I was listening to a debate on this question I never talk about politics but this is a principle you need to understand I'm not going to talk about politics but he who hath a near to hear can hear and if you have proper discrimination you'll know how to interpret what I say I was listening to this debate and you have a whole group of people have organized or organized on one side and a whole group of people organized on the other and uh the group that has been that have been poisoning the air and the water and the birds of the air that god saw was good and the beasts of the field that god saw was good and uh all the beautiful good things or the people who've been really destroying see here's destruction the people have been really destroying they've all gotten together on a bandwagon to point out that all every horrible thing is going to happen if we vote for a bit of purity and cleanliness and they're giving all reasons they're using words as the organ of speech speech. They're using words to entice us into lack of discrimination. They're using words to frighten us. That's a frightening thing, that experience there in that Tarot key. Words are being used to frighten us. And the one thing that I noticed that was being done with words is not only the idea of the frightening but pointing out that they were so good that they did nothing illegal they did nothing illegal if they got they got special permission from a special board to keep belching poison whether it be from a smokestack or a chimney you know that was that was fine they're honorable people because the group who who happen to be like the committee that gives that agrees to let somebody do something they shouldn't it would be pretty much like a committee of thieves got together and said well the majority on this committee can only be thieves and they're the ones that pass the law as to what it is legal to steal and not steal and in what manner even it it can be done you see so uh it was very obvious to me you you watch people use words and uh whether part of it is true and not true that isn't the point everything has a little bit of truth and a lot of non-truth unfortunately except in relation to those people who have so carefully learn to analyze what they say and how they say it who have become careful not to let their tongues tear rend strike lightning at another not for purposes of private gains certainly or for purposes of injury or for purposes of enticing you know some people use the golden tongue with which to get other people to trust them.

And then this is what they call the confidence game.

In other words, they use the charms and the powers, and more often than not, they'll do it, and I put this word in quotes, legally.

So good is not necessarily that which is outer plane lawful, nor is evil necessarily that which is considered evil on the outer plane because the people who are clever with words and have as i pointed out and have the powers the mars powers and the powers of communication that's the mars powers too are able to weave spells upon us enchantments and this is an evil enchantments that is going to bring gain at the expense of another is is evil says this tarot key because it's isolation and in other words in as much as ye have done it unto the least of these my children he have done it unto me now i can say this and know it it isn't that jesus is said to have said it some two thousand years ago what jesus said was what he was saying from the center of kether the crown the one the only the individual of which were all parts being being shown on this Qabalistic tree of life.

He had conscious awareness of where the true crown belongs. And remember, the one, the only is a crown. Notice the crown being knocked off here on the tower, because that's the false crown.

As a matter of fact, in the lessons, on this Tarot key, you'll notice that in the numeration of Gematria, which is part of the Qabalistic training, although it's very light in the beginnings of the work the enumeration is given that adds up to the word cain and remember in the bible cain slew abel so the false crown is cain and it's the false crown or the false will the idea of thinking that i am separate from you that i could have any gain at your expense that i can get good by taking advantage of you that i can indulge myself by bringing you down to a degraded level in any way you know because there are all sorts of ways of doing it not just in the ways but the with silver or gold that seems to be more precious now apparently the way they ever the way all of the money mads are just betting with their their monies and their screaming, gold has gone up to this amount and gold's gone up to that amount and everybody's all so focused on the gold.

Look at the life. They're not living.

Look at what they're missing. Talk about poverty. What can be more poverty-stricken than a consciousness all enchanted and entranced with how many pieces of paper are going to get a piece of metal.

It is staggering.

It is just staggering. Now this is living in the power indeed when we don't even know how to properly evaluate what's riches, what's goodness. In other words, the pair of opposites. What's the right and what's the wrong? And each thing has its own right and its wrong. Sin, again, I will repeat, is not something one can sit down and lay out in a whole group of rules and regulations.

Societies need regulations.

You have to have organization, you have to have laws.

God apparently, himself-herself, needed laws or we wouldn't have the cosmic laws laid down and the Ten Commandments to help guide in conduct that is in harmony with the divine plan.

Laws are needed, but when man uses laws for purposes opposite, then thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy mind, with all thy spirit.

In other words, when one goes into worshipping the false idols of which material things are just one of the many things that are false to worship. At that point then, man is entering a state of sinfulness which makes it inevitable that the lightning is going to have to strike.

In other words, when we, the Cain in us, the slaying, the Abel in us, you know, it's rather interesting. thing Cain offered God the fruit of the ground and Abel offered God if you will recall the lamb now people when they get to when they try to become overly literal are just losing their way all around because this is a principle given here now what is the fruit of the ground remember Adam him was created out of the dust of the ground but arise and sing o ye who dwell in the dust sings isaiah and that's what we chant when we chant and sing hear o israel the lord our god the lord is one arise and sing o ye who dwell in the dust dwelling in the dust is dwelling on a material plane not that there's anything wrong with physical or material things god made them and said they are gorgeous they're beautiful trala i've done it i've succeeded look how marvelous it all is god is in rapture and ecstasy he said it's good it's good it's good it's marvelous but i mean because it's an expression of the glory of the Most High.

But when we start worshipping the false images, transfer the worship to this specific thing, instead of seeing that it is there for the divine to experience in and through us all these other ways of rich awareness.

well arise and sing we work we work here at singing in more ways than one but our tongues it better start singing the dirge in the many ways that they do because remember the offerings from the ground god's burned them in other words you can't buy god off with some pieces of silver apparently be nice if we could wouldn't it then might be worth working like extra hard for some of the stuff and my mother of course was very good at bargaining with god she knew that she never offered god silver she'd offer god a few extra candles that she'd light you know at least she's getting a little closer to something she'd say look god if you do if you do this and this and if you save this my child or whatnot why i will i will fast for three days prep my precious thing at least she was trying to bargain with god for lovelier purposes and i always thought there was a a kind of charm in it in a way because those who do this at least are aware she was able to chuckle and be aware and know that these are just ways that one helps oneself to recognize the fact that apparently there are some things in life and levels where you can't buy yourself off or buy anything off basically or sell yourself out even perhaps at any rate this isolation in the tower of babel it's built remember with the mouth as the organ of speech as part of the idea and also with our misuse and certainly misuse of the mars force which has to do with the reproductive drive and every time we misuse these things we are building ourselves the kind of offerings that god must you know turn down because the lamb remember what the the lamb is the lamb is one of the many designations for Tiphareth beauty the son of god which we are adam means humanity it is also called son in hebrew ben son of god that's the lamb lamb is another term for that particular area of the tree which is the area of human beings or where human beings are going what we are evolving towards and the lamb slain from the foundation of the world that's us we are the lamb slain from the foundation of the world except that we've sort of slain ourselves in a way but that's part of evolution we have you to consciously unconsciously experience the heaven and god and unity is different than unconsciously marching around in the garden of eden there's a difference and so the attainment of this conscious ability and capacity conscious enlightenment is brought about through the function we see here as the tower we see then that it is the light the sun that that strikes the lightning do you notice the lightning hits knocks off the false crown that is the judgments that are erroneous the the lies that we've told ourselves and others the misuse of our tongue in other words the misuse of speech you remember the tower of babel was built you know people figured they're going to get to god and actually i would figure trying to get to god on a mountain of words so finally when they got so high you know what hey elohim said that's not the way to get to me by me you know some people you know that you might say by god but god can't say that god would have to say by me me i can't permit that so by me with a capital m yeah so so god gave them a confusion of tongues in other words in order for them to learn how to consciously act to do to work to act in harmony with the divine thinking and the divine plan they were going to have have to get themselves back to a unity of speech and the use of speech and as it is we do have a confusion of tongues we use the same words and they mean different things we don't even hear what we say to each other when we use certain words some people use words to sweet talk another in order to get something out of them you know whether it be to reaffirm one's own masculine or feminine feelings about oneself using sweet talk with another without being willing to undertake responsibilities that go with it is actually that sin whether we like it or not i don't care how often our beautiful young people want to announce and start announcing i you know after all freedom i'm free there's no such thing is freedom without earning freedom man earns freedom and man earns freedom by learning what are the cosmic laws and following them otherwise like this our earth laws you get thrown in jail only in this case we throw ourselves in jail in the jail of this tower of babel built with the misuse of words which means that we've been misusing our thinking misusing our feeling the driving desire nature and misusing certainly are doing because Mars is the action planet also let's then learn how to be a bit more careful in the use of this tongue this tongue is a very precious thing you know does all sorts of things besides enjoying the taste of food and quenching itself with water it says things to another person and what it says is very powerful notice how the serpent was able to entice that's powerful and notice also that when we if we use our words to give false impressions to get other people to go our way whether our way is really the right way or the truly ethical way when we do this we are exposing ourselves to the absolute necessity for great pain and yet that very pain my darlings is the grace of god this i hope you will know from the depth of your soul because it is corrective and it isn't anything outside that did it it is our own requirement for growth but when we find ourselves in a state of pain in a state of disappointment in a state of unhappiness instead of saying using our words that so and so it's your fault and your fault and your fault of course i think it's easier to say god it's your fault no after all what's god gonna do i live and breathe and have my being inside god and god can't throw me out because god doesn't live in this tower so but after we i get through telling god that if i'm in the mood to i get busy and do with myself whatever one has to in other words every pain that we suffer in our mental emotional life is due to the fact that we are still under the delusion of the isolation we are still thinking or feeling or evaluating from the false standards and therefore from the misuse of our tongue basically uh to be to be told that we shouldn't bear false witness about against our neighbor is a lovely thing but how often do we we forget the spirit of this and bear false witness against our neighbor by talking to each other in such a way as to make the person we're talking to turn against some third or fourth person, by deliberately presenting unbeautiful things about them, or how often, you know, so that we can be bearing...

You see, sin goes a little beyond, or wrongdoing goes a little beyond what we often think this mouth belongs to god this tongue belongs to god just like your eyes and your ears and your touch and every one of us are going to have to learn how to be very careful not to commit sacrilege against this miracle and mystery which is the tongue of god when we do lightning will strike sometimes it takes a little longer than others and god's voice will thunder you know you know lightning crackle crackle and roar down the vibratory pads and we we could scream all we like you we can't avoid it we ourselves would have been causing it see you notice the lightning and thunder of god the fire though the agony it purifies us so that finally in time we will come to see that every pain i have ever had has been there in order to purify me to purify me not in that area or way where the original adam and eve were pure because they just simply didn't have a consciousness let's face it i mean pure because we've gone through the temptations of this fellow the devil here the previous tarot key and along with the story of the our own initiation has taken place we have been evolved as we evolve ourselves where we're able to say ho ho you you get behind me satan and then ha ha and the time comes any of these various temptations to misuse our fellow man the bare false witness uh to get our beloved ones all upset and excited mainly because we want to maneuver them around or whatever it is you know we're not going to want to do that we're going to want to be too full we're going to be treasuring and this is what you're being taught to do to treasure your seeing and hearing and touching and talking the word in the beginning was the word and that word is mighty mighty let's watch that we don't permit ourselves to get enticed into evil by other people's golden words or using golden words to entice them away from the unity of God, the true crown, not the false.

Perhaps you know what the grace of God is, then. It's being able to be corrected by God via that.
