The title of my talk for this morning is Life, Death, and Resurrection in the Western Mysteries.

Don't you agree with me that the words of this particular song gave a great portion of it?

I think that you do. But let's go on into more of the fullness of the meaning of life death and the resurrection in the western mysteries so the so that we can together rise on the wings of our higher souls and no more fear the darkness or the things that have been haunting us down through the ages or at least start overcoming the fears that have been holding us in bondage to that which surely it is the destiny for all of us to overcome. Come some four to six hundred years before christ some manuscripts were written they were found a few years ago they were called the dead sea scrolls now these manuscripts were written during different periods the particular ones I am referring to are the Dead Sea Scrolls which much at first to the horror of fundamentalists gave the birth life teachings crucifixion death and resurrection of the Redeemer and And fundamentalists in exoteric religion were filled with horror at first because they feared that this would diminish or that this would damage the teachings of Christianity.

But after a while, man's mind is an extraordinary thing.

After a while, they stopped being so fearful. Some, of course, buried it away. Those who must be literal at any price.

Others managed to find excuses for such manuscripts, and still others recognized much that was true. Even amongst the fundamentalists, they started to recognize much that was true. Because, after all, the entire story that we are told regularly, not just once a year, but portions of it. This story has to do, basically, with the evolution of humanity, even though certain fundamental religious thinking has not yet recognized this fully, or perhaps some even in part. And these particular Dead Sea Scrolls were then found to have belonged to a special monastery of Essene thinking and I don't know how many of you realize this but during those many years there were about as many sects Sects, S-E-C-T-S, sects. I thought that needed clarification.

Amongst the Israelites, the Jews, the Hebrews, all synonyms for the same thing, as there are sects now amongst the Christians, man being what man is. We usually find all kinds of divisions and diversions from certain ideas, nor is this bad. It's part of the individualization of the human mind and the human heart. Nevertheless, amongst these many different groups, there were divisions.

There were the Pharisees, there were the Sadducees, and there were the Essenes. But even amongst these three main divisions we had the subdivisions and the particular Dead Sea Scrolls which gave the story of the Redeemer, of the Messiah. This came from a branch of the Essene mystical school of teaching which we today refer to as the Western Mysteries and which BOTA, short for Builders of the Adytum, which BOTA still teaches, for we are the inheritors of that particular branch of teaching.

We have retained the same basic methods for aiding spiritual aspirants step by step to grow from less to more from son or daughter or child of the manger that is the stable the animal consciousness up through growth into adulthood into that which is necessary to finally achieve conscious knowledge of who and what we are and therefore this particular story that was told though not recognized by the orthodox or fundamentalist type of mind this story basically was told is told because it is a ritualistic portrayal of our history not the history of one man my beloved ones not the history of one person it is the history of humanity it is the history of man with a capital capital M, of which all of us are parts. It is the history of the offspring of God. It is the history of the offspring of man, call it which you will. We will now go into a little more of the detailed explanation of this teaching so that you and I together can share the glory of what is involved in the Easter celebration you see before you what we call the Qabalistic Tree of Life this Qabalistic Tree of Life incidentally is the same Tree of Life mentioned in Genesis and this Qabalistic Tree of Life is the same Tree of Life which has been the basic groundwork for the initiatory system which has been taking place via the Western Mysteries down through the ages for at least 6,000 years perhaps longer and certainly it It holds the history of the entire evolution as it takes place within the framework of our consciousness.

Now, the portion of consciousness referred to in Genesis, when it says, in the beginning all was without form and void, void that has to do with what is called in Qabalah the three veils and that is before anything starts to manifest at all and in the western mysteries those of us who are trained in it or who have the responsibility who have the custodianship of these teachings we, along with those who have taught us, always say, it does not pay to try to think of what came before, since we cannot even properly think about what is.

Therefore, let's start trying to think about what we can comprehend now, here, and from that our consciousness will be able to take its step-by-step process. It can use its logical processes provided it doesn't start with wrong premises and so by trying to understand what is at the moment we can through a relationship of ideas understand better the whole meaning of life consciousness and evolution itself so the three veils really in Qabalah refer to that that limitless light about which nothing can be said, because our consciousness can't even remotely comprehend that level of absolute being or absolute consciousness. And since it cannot comprehend it, it's useless to waste energy there. Let's start with what can be comprehended. And so when all is without form and void, we have that particular aspect referred to which is also known as the limitless light now then but the moment God said the moment there was that which was a division we have then the beginning of creation and the beginning of creation has to do with distinct thought distinct process by divinity that is starting a whole involution of its own powers or selfhood into something for a purpose and the purpose incidentally my darlings is what we are celebrating today as you shall see so when god said let us and we have this series of days remember in the bible it also says that a day is as a thousand years and a thousand years is as a day in the mind of the lord the idea is that uh time is relative and therefore a neon or what we might want to call thousands or millions or billions of years.

This is a cycle. And in the consciousness of the one, the vast one, the indivisible, as Qabalah calls the one and only, the divine, in that consciousness, we do not deal with ideas like time in the same way that we must in our physical brain awareness. So we want to always keep in mind that when we hear the word day in this entire story, we're really having it related to cycle, which can be any length of time, whatever you want to give it. Because as we know, even through Einstein's relativity, time doesn't have the kind of meaning we have thought it does. When we are bored, it will go on forever. And when we are in love, why a second seems to be the amount of time we've been with the beloved, although it may have been hours and hours, and we will scream at the little bit of time we were given, whereas we'll moan at how much time a thing takes if we're with something that isn't much to our pleasure.

And then as we get older, we notice too how different time becomes. Comes. The older we get, the more time flies. Those of you who have not yet come to the ripe age of almost 21, as we have, will of course not realize this yet, but you will, and you will remember how extraordinary this is. The older we get, physical plain speaking, speaking, the more time flies. Now then, this act of cycles then, this act of creation or series of cycles is exactly in harmony with evolution, incidentally, as has been discovered discovered by our scientists, we finally came to that point where instead of God saying, let there be, a very interesting thing took place. And you check it in your Bible in Genesis. I don't remember whether it's in the first or second portion of the story.

But you will see that instead of it saying God, it it says lord god and instead of just and god said uh uh let there be you will notice that when it comes to the creation of man uh it says and the lord god said let us make man in our image now here comes the point of who and what we are first of all when we want to think of the idea of let us remember in the Bible and the Ten Commandments the first commandment we're given incidentally is that we shall love the Lord our God with all our heart with all our mind with all our soul that is the first commandment that there shall be no other gods before me in other words that refers to number one on the tabalistic tree of life the one the indivisible with its very specific group of names and these group of names are part of the western mystery training which we inherit from the dim past and which we continue utilizing so that one that only that indivisible that is the essence the Lord of life the Lord of creation however when the Lord of creation goes into motion or goes into the motion of looking into itself that act of motion in itself immediately forms the other two portions of itself which doesn't mean that there's that there's more than one god what it means is that god or the one life or the lord of life or the indivisible one recognizes two portions to its indivisibility and the one is called the divine Father and the other is called the Divine Mother. And the one is called Force. The other is called Form or the Principle of Force, the Principle of Form. So that we have here the beginning of the pairs of opposites. And therefore, when it says Lord God, actually the original translators who who were not trained in Qabalah, failed to make us realize, because they didn't realize it, that what was being said basically was that Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh, that's what we chant when we chant the word of power, which is the Father, and Elohim, which is the chant of the word of power, which is Mother, that those are the two original words of power, yod he vo he elohim that is what uh was meant basically when it's they said let us create man in our image now when we when the idea of creating in our image takes place what have we got we've got a process of begetting not just creating something outside or something that seems to be outside because our image is a begetting it takes place inside as does everything else indeed though we may recognize it not so if you will look at that yellow Sephirah which it means divine emanation on the qabalistic tree of life we have here that which in genesis is referred to as adam now I you have heard this before but we must recapitulate it adam in hebrew means generic humanity it does not mean a single man and so the lord god said let us make generic humanity humanity when the Lord God named man Adam.

We therefore, and if you will notice, if you can go back to your Genesis and check it, male and female created them, it says, at first. Then later, we have the story of the rib and of Eve and all the ribbing that all the females have been taking since then, incidentally. But meanwhile...

Before that takes place we do have the first portion of the allegory of evolution or creation now then uh when eve is referred to what too few people know or realize is that eve in hebrew is is Chava, and that has, of course, more than one meaning because there's more than one name. It refers basically to the Queen.

Malka is the Queen, and that's another name for Eve, incidentally, and you'll see why soon. And it is the physical plane.

It is the manifestation. It is the becoming robed with flesh. It is developing bones shall we say it is being garbed in a certain type of consciousness which we call physical plane awareness so that when we come to the Eve aspect we come to more of a densifying or densification if I may use such a term which certainly is not in the dictionary, I'm sure, still. It gives a clear idea of the meaning that we are trying to get together. And that is that the physical plane in itself becomes something that is called the bride because that also is involved in the meaning of the physical plane. It is called the Garden of Eden incidentally the physical plane you say Garden of Eden ho ho ho well let's wait a minute because I know most of us have the idea that the physical plane is hell and so it is in some ways when our consciousness has not yet returned where it is destined to return as we shall see now then the development within adam and eve incidentally who walked in innocence remember until we develop an ability to know right from wrong until evolution brings to us that development that evolution of conscience conscience which is the child of the ability to recognize right from wrong until evolution has developed in us in our consciousness the ability to discriminate the ability the capacity to use our minds our consciousness with an an intensity of awareness, until such a time we walk in innocence.

And we walk naked because we have not yet recognized the mind, the consciousness, has not yet evolved itself into a capacity for the complete self-consciousness, which is its destiny. And to be self-conscious, remember, you have to be able to be divided. For a time because you have to be able to say this and that white and black male and female you have to be able to see variations otherwise there'd be nothing to see and so it is in the variations that consciousness develops consciousness evolves therefore the The walking in the Garden of Eden in innocent happiness with God has to do with that point of human evolution where it had not yet developed the ability or the capacity to say, now is this the right or wrong thing to do? Is this the intelligent or the unintelligent thing to think or to feel? In other words, the capacity for making free choices, because you can't make a choice unless you have two things to choose from.

And so you can't follow any road, you can't follow any path as a self-determined thing, as a king, in other words, until you have developed the ability to know these differences and make these judgments.

Now, the moment consciousness starts to evolve and is able to tell differences, what happens? It gets curious.

Now, surely you're all familiar enough with psychology to know that the more curious the baby, the more intelligent it's going to be, provided you don't stop it from investigating, except where it may damage itself.

Because curiosity is the mother of intelligence. Curiosity is the mother of knowledge.

Only he who has a drive to know focuses consciousness in whatever area it has that drive so that it may learn. And therefore, this curiosity that took place, this curiosity to know what the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, this the very um tempting the very curiosity was it's uh in a sense you might say it was its own indication that evolution had already been bringing it to that point and remember evolution is something takes place in the one divine consciousness in other words the one divine consciousness is begetting the image and likeness of itself and like and every since everything evolves and doesn't spring up all finished in one jump though it would be nice if we could do it that way we we then have the processes that lead to the very sad condition where we were thrown out of our garden of eden now I don't know whether we shouldn't uh waggle our finger at the divine and say now that's not being a very kind father god you know after all that garden of eden sounds like it was a very heavenly place to be etc now why throw me out but uh that's because we could be uh haven't if we have had a sense of humor we could have waggled our finger at the lord of life since the lord of life is big enough not to mind what an infant does and and the relationship becomes a little sweeter a little more meaningful still what we want to recognize together is that by having to cope with the out side or what seems to be outside by having to work you know by the The sweat of thy brow shalt thou till the fields, we're told, by having to work.

Has anything ever had any meaning to you unless you had to work for it? Think. Think hard if you haven't and answer yourself.

Have you ever valued anything you didn't have to work for?

Somebody said yes?

Ah.

Maybe somebody's forgetting past incarnations or what the work was.

There isn't a thing we really value that we have not earned.

And that which comes too easily we have contempt for because we have not learned to hold it in the cradle of our love.

The mother loves the child that she goes into labor to conceive, because she grows it in her. And indeed, if a child just grew up out of the ground, she couldn't remotely have the same kind of feeling, although she might have something similar if she was identified with the ground as an expansion of selfhood, like, say, gardening. Nevertheless that which we work for becomes a permanent part of our being and when we don't if we don't earn it and yet try to take it or think that it belongs to us we discover that all that happens is that we start falling apart in our what would we call it in a sort of moral sense and usually we find those that think that the world owes them everything that they shouldn't work for it no matter what it is are the ones who also find that their lives become more and more filled with anguish with despair with loss of faith they're the ones who does who discover that life is meaningless in the final analysis and their lives show this meaninglessness.

So that we want to realize that being thrown out of the Garden of Eden, symbolically speaking, through evolution, wasn't any act of, shall we say, anger, as it would seem to be, because, again, in Qabalah, severity, which is the red Sephirah there, or emanation of God, severity is also synonymous with justice, and it has to do with action. It has to do with that drive, that will, that activity, which brings us into the experiences that, when they are immature, mature and naturally rebound back to teach us the lesson. Haven't you been slapped on the wrist or slapped somebody on the wrist, maybe a little harder than that, when you've been trying to teach them a lesson? Certainly every child has to be disciplined, and it's the discipline that has to do with this idea of it isn't anger in the sense that unevolved humanity thinks of anger at all. It has to do with a principle, and this principle is true universally we therefore then come to this idea of birth now the birth of the son of god now remember I pointed out that that yellow Sephirah or emanation called called Tiphareth Beauty, is called also generic humanity, Adam.

Now, it has several other names. One of its other names is Melech in Hebrew, which means king.

Now, remember, Jesus was called king.

Another one of its names is Mesih in Hebrew, which means Messiah, which became the Latin Christus, and into the Greek, I forget which comes first, Christ. Anyway, one or the other.

So that we have the Redeemer, the Anointed, is part of its meaning.

Now, this particular area of consciousness, notice, centers the whole tree. Tree, that is, the begotten offspring of God. Therefore, generic humanity, or that level of consciousness which we call generic humanity, balances the tree. If you think of the upper part of the tree, that is, the white Sephirah, the one, the indivisible, as altogether being being the expression, the three, the supernal triad, it's also called the three, with the white as a central point, as being the one, the indivisible, which is also referred to as the father by the allegory, you can see that the central portion of this Qabalistic tree of life is the reflection of that one bright light now how does light see itself or know itself say the one the indivisible god in requiring a way of becoming aware of self it has to it reflects itself to itself as in a mirror now when light is projected you and I could not see a thing unless it had something that it projected onto that reflected the light back to us and therefore the light being reflected back to us is in essence the way the Lord of Life looks in the mirror and begets self or sees self on this other arc, the center of the tree and that is the begotten Son of God.

But meanwhile, mind you, that means to that level of consciousness, which is the Lord God or Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh Elohim, Tiphareth, Adam, King, isn't king at all, it's child. It's the begotten child of God. But to the levels below, say to the levels of the physical plane and to, you see, the violet circle called yesed, which refers to the subconscious mind and all the levels below that yellow emanation refer to our personality.

To the levels below that yellow circle is lord and king. So again, we have to recognize that we are dealing with who's in what point of view. From the point of view of the one, the indivisible, the God, the begotten is the child born in the manger. Now, how born in the manger? That violet circle there is also called in Qabalah by the several names which are part of the training process in the ritualistic initiations. Now, it is called the automatic consciousness. It is called subconsciousness. It is called the vital consciousness. It is called the animal consciousness. All of these things which man shares with all living creatures, all beings.

So when the child remember child from the point of view of the highest is born in the manger that is in the stable where animals are that means that consciousness is being begotten or born out as child from animal consciousness and it means basically then remember in genesis after the the animals were created, that's when man, Adam, was created. So that from the point of view of the divine, we have again this basic idea that the son of God or the offspring of God is born in a manger, that is, born where animals are kept.

And therefore your consciousness and my consciousness, consciousness, your individuality and my individuality, your self-conscious awareness and my self-conscious awareness, your ability and capacity to know good from evil and my ability and capacity to know the same. All of us share this ability, this capacity to take our own lives in our hands, our evolution. We share this together as offspring of God, where we become the king. Remember the Messiah, the Redeemer. We become the king of the animal consciousness or the physical plane is where it's more related to because it's the king that takes the physical plane as a bride. And from the point of view of that stable or that animal consciousness, that same offspring, the Son of God, becomes the Redeemer, the Anointed. Because, you see, it is our job, our destiny, our evolutionary necessity to take our consciousness, to consciously take our consciousness and redeem all of the forces, the patterns of hating, of revengefulness, of stealing, of all of the elements that have to do with the Ten Commandments, incidentally.

In other words, it is our destiny to take all of the old patterns that we have made that reside in subconsciousness to take these patterns to dissolve them to crucify them therefore who becomes the crucified one and who is it that can do the crucifying only the Redeemer in us that Redeemer which is the Son of God in us must crucify those portion portions of of our being, which are still being held in the vice of the animal level, that in us which still reacts to the world's values.

Lay not up your treasures where moths and rust can corrupt, said jesus of nazareth said he who symbolizes our own higher soul lay not up treasures which aren't the things you're going to take with you a new law I give unto you said jesus of nazareth whose real name incidentally is yaheshua and that's what it was was called yeshua indeed and yeshua incidentally is again part of the ritualistic aspect that helps us understand that whereas the father is made up of the letters yod hey vah hey when you insert the holy letter sheen and that tarot key number 20 you see the rising up out of the coffin often when we overcome death we all become yaheshua and how do we overcome death oh my darlings we have overcome it a thousand times a thousand times a thousand times and have not yet realized it it is our destiny to realize it and to do it consciously as Kings but before we can can do it consciously, we have to crucify, we have to redeem that energy which we have been holding, in other words, the karma, the evils of our yesterdays, the animal consciousness still in us, which it is our responsibility to redeem.

We have to bring our consciousness into that level where Jesus said, love ye one another. It seems so simple, doesn't it? Love ye one another. Now what makes it so hard, I ask you? What makes it so hard to love one another? Why is it so necessary for people to say, Eek!

You know.

What is it? What animal portion, what pattern is it that we hang on to where our eyes, our consciousness, our emotions hunt for the thing to tear, to rend, like an animal, instead of the thing to join up with?

Because this is what we do, isn't it? We have the tendency to hunt for the thing that needs rending. And those that have attained, God bless you, see that means I'm speaking the truth my hebrew superstition that I go with if I'm the one that's talking and said something I want you to believe that is otherwise naturally throw it out so so what is it then that makes it so uh necessary or gives us that strange drive maybe not all the of time but certainly at times to want to rend and tear others well there are many things of course there's one thing involved those who feel inferior have a need to rend and tear somebody they think is superior now that somebody might not really be superior but if they think that person is superior in accordance to their own idea, and they feel inferior, there is this subconscious kind of drive that rends and tears at the other because that way it makes us bigger than the other one.

That's why every leader is rent and torn. You realize this, don't you? There isn't any president who wasn't called by more names that aren't allowed on TV or radio even, incidentally. There isn't any leader in any field of life that has not been rent and torn because it is always the way of those who think they see someone on a higher level to want to make themselves feel they have something bigger or better. And so this is one of the things that causes a rending and tearing although there are other reasons also sometimes our own guilt make us want to rend and tear another and these are the guilt that we have to redeem for instance if we feel guilty of injuring someone or the cause of someone then we have a tendency very often to attack that very person that we have actually injured uh by telling ourselves that the only reason that person we injured that person or picking on on that person is because that person is evil and so of course we always like to call the other thing evil instead of redeeming our own qualities our tendency is to jump at others to rend to tear with the teeth of the animal in the stable still not transmuted yet the teaching of yaheshua which is our own higher soul which is us very plainly stated that he who is without sin let him cast a first stone it was very the way of life was was given so simply and so beautifully so that the life of the offspring of god which means your life and my life are lives that we have to make for ourselves by learning how to continuously crucify how to continuously sacrifice the old patterns to the new.

But what do we discover? Crucifixion brings redemption and then brings the overcoming, resurrection, because this very energy then becomes resurrected and this resurrected energy gives us a new heaven and a new earth.

And so it was our beloved yeshua he who said also unless ye become as a little child ye shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven and what is it to become as a little child it means to have so beautifully overcome the lower the conscious animal level drives hates negatifs that again we walk in a new innocence but this is a conscious innocence it isn't an unconscious innocence it is the cleansing that has to do with the story of the baptism incidentally and we must cleanse ourselves because no one can cleanse us for us what we can do one for another is to hold up our light before men isn't that what yahushua said don't hide your light under a bushel but hold up your light before men and so how we have to learn to hold up this light and how do we do it by becoming by becoming that which yahushua was and is and therefore when it it was said, let that mind be in you, which was and is in Christ Jesus.

What does that mean? It means be of that level of consciousness because we are in our higher self, that potential in any case, although we are growing towards it. And so the way of life has to do with simple procedures it has to do with these simple beauties what was it that yaheshua said he said he who would be all things must be a servant unto all What is it to be a servant unto all? Again, Yehoshua was telling us that the world's values are not very fragrant.

Yehoshua was telling us, and very, very succinctly indeed, indeed, that it is up to us to learn how to serve and serve in beauty. To serve is to be a servant.

And those who have to admire the physical plane level rulers, like the big millionaires or whatever it is we think are the leaders or rulers, what are we doing? We are again laying up the treasures that moths and rust corrupt because these are not the true leaders in any case. The true leader is the servant unto all and has the humility that Yaheshua had and has, saying, come learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart. This is the living and the way of life of Yaheshua. What then do we do when we want to live this life because unless we work at living it we do not redeem our patterns what we do in order to live this life is to follow the procedures laid out by the great ones who've gone before us, although in principle it would seem each of us should be able to do it alone. We can't.

We need each other, my darlings. Love ye one another.

Hold your light before men.

No one can do anything of himself. We can all do anything only of the Father, said Yehoshua. The Father worketh in and through us. And only as we recognize this do we recognize our kinship, one for the other. And when we recognize our kinship, we are already sharing that consciousness. We are starting to become one with this divine Yehoshua in us. And when we are truly taking on our load of the world's labors and our portion of the redemption of these levels of energies when we are living up to the highest that we are capable of when we refuse to let ourselves fall but if we do fall we get up and pray to god to give us the strength to keep going saying get thee behind me satan when we do all these things finally we come to the testing grounds which are part of the initiation and what are these testing grounds life presents us with the opportunity to either pass the initiatory test or to fall all and so we have initiations within the western mysteries right here in our tradition which those of you who are willing to learn and to prepare yourselves it's all available if you if you work for it those of us who do this then we finally come to the point where we are able to be tested tested and tried. And during this process, what happens? We go into our Gethsemane.

We have gone into it over and over again, every one of us, my darlings, because it isn't just once.

We pray, God, take this bitter cup from me. But when we have arrived at a deeper understanding, understanding we say nevertheless not my will but thy will because we realize okay so here's another test let's get on with it but we don't hug the negative to ourselves we try to hold our consciousness with that divinity and when we finally come to the point where others crucify us because we've become something that's a little bit more, of course, paranoids think that they're being crucified all the time because they're so much better than everybody else. And so you have that to contend with. But aside from our paranoids, we do have to recognize that there are those who are still responding to these negatives, which we mentioned, that have a need to rend and tear. Aside from that we have to go through the testing experience so that even though we may have a moment of bitter darkness where we may cry out my god my god why hath thou forsaken me we can still bring ourselves together and quickly and and give ourselves up into the keeping of the divine will where we are in any case then comes the ability to truly resurrect overcome what we call death in this manner that when we have cleansed enough when we have become truly anointed when we have passed our tests we start to share in that consciousness which knows that it was never never born and it shall never die and so then we can say with yaheshua we can say before abraham was I am my darlings before time began you were before time began look into your own hearts and and say, I am.

Right now, I am.

And when time shall cease, I am.

This is the experience of true resurrection.

This is overcoming all death because we laugh at the body no matter how many bodies get broken down, we can laugh. We can say this is just physical that before time began I am and my loves every one of us who know and there are not enough of us yet but we are growing brighter and larger every one of us who know that before abraham was I am we are holding our lights out we are enfolding you we are projecting you to you to your heart your mind your spirit your body we are giving you all things and we are saying to you those of you who are destined to become our disciples or already are we are saying to you feed my sheep feed my lamb when all things shall cease to be one thing remains love consciousness the only thing that matters is to work at knowing that we are a unity in yahushua we do not have to fear the going of the body we do not have to fear the crucifixions we have nothing to fear except not recognizing temptation when it comes and even then in time we shall overcome that my darlings the resurrection is a fact both in the narrower sense of reincarnation after reincarnation the resurrection is a fact that after every darkness and after every group of tears we have shed we have looked out upon a brighter deeper and newer world the truth is is that after all worlds have been shed by us we will still know that before abraham was I am and this morning when we leave this temple of the holy spirit let us take that holy spirit out with us let us say I have been bathing in the light of the resurrection I am the resurrection I have overcome death before abraham was I am let us take with us this light from out this temple my beloved ones and let us say to ourselves and let our hearts say one unto the other I have been walking I have been seeing I have been inhaling the spirit of god because I have been with the resurrection of the light that shineth ever even when darkness comprehended it not together then my beloved ones let us hear loving one another learn to accept our resurrection and in accepting it to share it thou art eternal in the heavens and on earth and as I know it so shall ye so shall ye amen the title
