I suspect that this is Easter.

I think you will agree with us that our concept of Easter in this, the teachings of the Secret Wisdom of Israel, go far beyond that which has been taken in by orthodoxies, you know, through the last approximately 2000 years. Years. It goes very much beyond it. Last, I guess it was last Sunday, I spoke to you about some of the esoteric aspects of the seasons. We were talking about the, no, this would be the spring equinox, the spring equinox, and I was pointing out how the equinoxes and and the summer and winter solstices, as they interact one after another, indicate cycles, as they keep turning, swirling, cycles of consciousness, growing, experiencing, and bringing with it always the death of the old with the birth of the new.

In other words, in a way you might say it's the shadow goes before the light of the soul so that we can see through that shadow that something real, something definite, something Something that is really far more solid than our concept of solid is behind the manifestations that we think of as life and death. Or you might say life and or death if you wished, though I don't think that that's necessary.

We all have concepts of life. We all have concepts of death. Yes, certainly this is the season, the Easter equinox is always correlated in some way or other with the spring equinox, you know. And in the spring equinox, I think it's very, very obvious that we are continuously celebrating the rebirth. The we're celebrating the livingness of life we're celebrating the fact that even though life seems to stop living it comes back it is resurrects it is resurrected and suddenly here we have not only the new the reborn but but always if you look in long enough cycles you find there's a type of growth taking place through large groups of cycles so that the rebirth or the resurrection if you will because resurrection and rebirth get a little bit confused here in many people's minds since there's such a a correlation between subtle aspects of consciousness that take place from points of the harvesting, which would be the vernal equinox.

And, you know, consciousness harvests itself, in case you haven't noticed.

It does it very thoroughly indeed.

Usually we will find, when we've become true spiritual aspirants when we aspire to develop ourselves into the fullest children who partake of the wisdom of Israel we usually will discover that the the type of seasons that seem to lend themselves to almost a hopelessness if you don't know that seasons repeat themselves actually are the forerunners of a message that's being told continually you are continuously being told that though you may not always be seeing it in the manifested universe in the way it exists it It is still always there, always occurring, and that is the proof that death is the great deluder and that life is really all that is.

When we come to the point in the evolution of a planet, like, for example, our planet right now, we still have a great deal of confusion in the mass minds because they have developed to a point most of the time where they can accept some of these indications but not all of them uh by all of them I mean the implications that wherever you see death you're going to definitely see life again and wherever you see life you're going to see death that we don't like we shrink back why because we we're afraid we are basically some part of us is still a little afraid even those of us who know without any question that death is an illusion and that this has been proven over and over again in more than one way even those of us who actually know it have moments of terror or fear if they manage to overcome it regarding themselves it'll still hit them in relation to loved ones and indeed I'm not saying this isn't the way it ought to be I think it ought to be whichever way it is for every one of us because that's the way we need to think and feel it our stage of vision in order to help bring to ourselves a fuller comprehension of the purpose of it all because after all if life doesn't have a purpose we sure seem to be around here where it's all a tale told by an idiot wouldn't you say without any doubt whatsoever you see more insanities being expressed by more collapsed hearts and minds you see more sorrow more hatred you see more distrust of life itself and even those who if they were asked do you trust god oh yes but if you were asked do you trust life I wonder how many would be able to say yes also maybe a few of you just maybe but even that has a great big question mark because most of us do not trust life we've had one or two or three unhappy experiences we're afraid it will recur and anything that we have had in the way of our own lifestyle anything that has become a part of a pattern that we consider dear and that we want to hold as permanent the uh threat any the threat of losing that uh it becomes a fantastically and a terrifying thing.

The fear of being alone, the fear of not being alone. It all depends on what it is some of us want or think we want.

So let's examine what Easter actually portrays.

Again, we do usually, whether we're talking about the winter solstice or the vernal equinox or the summer solstice seasons are cycles they express on this planet in a special way and even though they express in that special way it is often a good idea to remember that scientific research has indicated indicated that even the kind of seasons we have change. There was a time in the history of this planet where we didn't have the kind of seasons we have now. That's when we had a bunch of dinosaurs that were just flourishing. The climate all over the planet, or over most to the planet was so warm so tropical that we had absolutely masses of creatures that would be classified as belonging to the reptile kingdom kingdom, reptilians. The birds were a type of reptile that developed a way to do some kind of flying. The so-called animals were reptilian animals. We still see the type by by looking at an alligator or a crocodile.

And it's, they really don't look that different from the various other types of reptilians, except that, of course, then they grew much, much larger. The conditions were such that it tended toward the gross, gross, gross, gross, gross, gross, gross. Growth you know in other words it would seem to me that the divine creator of all got into a stage with this planet now this is mind I'm just saying seems to me you don't have to accept it I get some pretty interesting ideas sometimes that I just share with you out of my puckish sense of humor as I think it's good to share laughter with God that's certainly what I would prefer if I was God and since I am there you are you see how easy it is to laugh well it does seem that the divine creator decided to test out something or to try some concept, or else the divine creator wanted to use a certain cycle or period in which to develop the most thorough self-knowledge of how to multiply cells and to see.

See now let me see just how big I can make well what name is there of some kind of great that sounds beautiful what kind of source brontosaurus there's a good one so we had had this extraordinary development of these extraordinary large sizes in the creatures.

And I remember when I used to come across atheists, which I did very often, especially when I was an atheist myself, you know, we'd get together to prove to each other why God is not and when we got it across when we came across someone who would be foolish enough to argue with us poor things you know they should have realized that you can't argue with bigotry and stupidity and surely if there's anything more bigoted and stupid it's atheism anyone who thinks at all who should be able to to see through that readily. Anyway, I didn't. I'm proud to say that I've been as stupid as any of us.

I refuse to be locked out of the club.

Well, there was something, when this question would come up, oh, yes, well, if there is a God and God creates, how come God made such a mistake in going for so many untold millions of years building reptilian bodies. If God is all-powerful and all-knowing and all everything, certainly God wouldn't make such a mistake. Obviously there's no God. This is one of the questions and answers that would arise. And at this point in my life, I discover how foolish that answer was.

So at that time I thought it was pretty, I thought that it was pretty smart to have that on hand, you know, at the tip of your tongue.

This is what's true of so many of us under so many conditions.

But you see, we assume that something that becomes extinct, that there never was any use for it, and that it never served any purpose.

And this is the greatest mistake of all, the fact that certain forms outweigh their usefulness, the fact that certain forms may be required for one period of evolution, then, having served their purposes, go on, so that other types of forms may get in there and have their cycles, completed so that consciousness because consciousness always being in every form consciousness is always gaining experience from any and every form that it partakes of whether that form seems to be inanimate like a rock or a tree or a mountain or whether it's animate like all vegetable matter you know we were full of vast jungles too and plains and all kinds of of living creatures buzzing busily all over the place.

But basically, there's another answer that's far more accurate.

The divine, like the architect going to build a house, knows right from the beginning where it's going. But within the framework of where it's going, it leaves itself a few surprises for itself. Otherwise, it would get pretty bored with its own creativity.

You know, you fix up your own rules in any game. If you want to make up a new game, you have to have rules. So you make a few rules, and under one type of cycle, we had a few rules there where we had creatures just really running off in all directions for heaviness, height, bigness. Bigness was in style. Style. And I guess anyone who wasn't big had better be fast. And even that didn't help too much. Well, then, we have had a period where it seemed that the creator was getting nowhere but you see when you study the basic teachings that have to do with the beginnings when you are taught the esoteric aspects of Genesis when you've been brought through your cycles of initiation you discover that certainly life, consciousness, has had to learn how to grow itself, develop itself, vehicles of all types for all kinds of purposes. And when you need to practice doubling of cells, since obviously, as you notice, all growth of a vehicle takes place by cells doubling themselves and then they double themselves.

When you have such a great undertaking that has been occurring during the cycles of the evolution for this planet, you also have then a group of rules that have been given to automatic automatic consciousness saying now become automatic you know how often I've pointed out to you though I'm sure you see it for yourselves I've pointed out to you that anything that we need to know well we have to learn so well that it becomes subconsciousness that we don't have to give it any more conscious thought like if we want to become a typist we have to keep practicing doing doing it over and over again, over and over again, so that we become perfect at typing. If you want to become a musician, you have to practice over and over again, over and over again and over and over and over again.

And people who live next door or around, earshot of the children that are learning music. They go out of their cotton-picking or other kind of picking minds because it's pretty disagreeable to listen to somebody else practicing to become automatic now remember that all vehicles are said to be part of the vital soul that man shares with all living creatures that's a very important statement it means that all of that practicing regarding making vehicles so that they so that when your consciousness took on forms and pushed and pressed itself and hill and utilized the image that had been placed in it when your consciousness was was was presented with the rules of the game, you more and more learned how to build these various forms so that you were able afterwards to partake of the automatic consciousness that has learned how. It's a level of the universal subconsciousness. Everything that we do anywhere anywhere and everywhere we do because at some point consciousness which you have otherwise you could not be in that human vehicle your human consciousness therefore let's say has had at some point or other to be in on that period or cycle planetarily where you had to make make the growing of a vehicle and the ability to utilize the vehicle in many ways. You had to make it automatic, otherwise you'd forever have to be stammering to hunt on your typewriter for the proper letter that goes in the word, or you'd have to be forever hunting for that piano key or organ key or every little thing then nothing would be rapid it wouldn't become subconscious as we call it because there'd be no memory there for it to do it memory comes from automatically consciously doing over and over and over again and all of the universal subconsciousness therefore all your subconsciousness is what it is because at some point in the evolution of form on this planet you have entered into the learning which has been added to the mass consciousness of for the whole In fact, a few of you may have even learned it in a different place than this planet.

You may have learned it when you were part of some other planet, and are on this planet right now for further, shall we say, extracurricular duties in the evolutionary process, because some of us certainly can use it, and the world certainly needs it. But even a question then of the period of the great reptiles was that a waste it was not a waste because that was the cycle that every planet has to have where it is able to become a real adept at making itself a dinosaur or a crocodile or a mosquito or a worm or whatever creature we want to talk about we've had to learn how to take a pattern which is a thought form remember a thought form in a level of existence where the thought form is something more solid to you than your solid chair is right now because this substance out of which thought forms are made have more lasting reality than do the physical forms which are always temporary they're always temporary so that when When we say that all these dinosaurs were grown for nothing, we're making the greatest mistake that we can make.

Obviously it was a needed learning or it wouldn't have taken place. There was something needed to perfect the ability of consciousness to keep the evolution of consciousness correlated with the atomic aspects or the atomic matter, whatever name you want to give it, which would form itself around the force field of the telepathic, shall we say the telepathic image because in the final analysis all telepathy that takes place between mind and mind takes place why?

Because all mind is really unified whether it knows it or not and those who are aware of a telepathic episode say oh how marvelous I've just, you know, had a telepathic experience, and they might think it was the one and only time they've had it. They wouldn't realize that everybody functions in a telepathic formation all the time, and simply isn't recognizing it.

Indeed not until we come to see that things like telepathy are normal not abnormal that they are in fact more normal and they take place more than do the sort of things that we call normal like we have ideas that there's a normality about the various runaway pressures in matter like earthquakes you know it's a I'm afraid normal but it's called sort of like an automatic normal that has nothing to do with consciousness and I'm pointing out that the normal of consciousness the telepathic sharing of the awareness of what's happening, the thought forms, the images, that's what's happening between minds all the time is so commonplace that we don't really recognize it. It takes place so consistently that we don't recognize it.

I think the primary difference between people who are aware of this principle and those who aren't are the ones who have watched often enough to discover that the more difficult job is to find out when we really are having an original thought, not when it's a telepathic thought. And that's the truth of it, truly. Truly. Even in things like inventions, you find, now that you're more familiar with the total world, We get information from each other more rapidly We discovered that quite a few people suddenly invent something at the same time All over the all over the world and that's exactly how it would occur Because there's a level a plane if you will of Consciousness in what you might call the unseen but it's more real in this level basically In it's in the deeper sense But there's a plane in which the scientists who are working on the other side of the sphere have been working out various telepathically inspired ideas that have to do with inventions, inventions that will benefit mankind, inventions that will benefit life.

And then whenever you whenever the inner plane hierarchical beings whenever they discover that they have a little extra talent here and interest in a specific subject like maybe building something for a house or building something for a A dog, I'm all for that. If it's something that makes my dog happier.

Whatever it is. What we discover when we research this thing thoroughly is that it's projected there are groups of people that are chosen who have an affinity for specific things that are being projected for a specific cycle. In other words, the hierarchy prepares new knowledge to be able to become manifested on the physical plane.

And the way it's done, it chooses those that will be the most open to that type of image, and they start projecting it.

They have projection teams.

And so suddenly you have a whole group of people who receive the same projection and the one who gets to the patent office fastest.

As the one who gets the name and the fame and all that sort of thing I'm not commenting on the rightness or wrongness of the system I'd hate to tell you how many things I think are wrong with the system but I think it's necessary things are wrong until we learn how to make them right we become wise only through experience no matter how much we yearn to have for our children to be happy our children simply are going to refuse to be happy if it be us the parents that will be responsible for the happiness the only way they they will accept happiness is if they make their own mistakes and do their own weeping and and get their own bruises and are able then to say for themselves and feel for themselves this and this doesn't work but that and that does. Then they come and they're very happy about it. Now if a parent is foolish enough to say, see didn't I tell you, the child isn't going to be as spontaneously loving towards the parents as it could be because no one likes to hear anyone say didn't I tell you so do you yeah let's watch that we may it's all right to think it now there we may influence the child into realizing we're responsible but if the child thinks that he or she dreamed it up you know then there'd be no reason for it to have to do an extra little rebellion or two against you all right these are just little high highlights little by lights even you might call them but basically there never was such a thing as a mistake this is what I'm trying to tell you really that things that seem to have been a mistake that nature made sometimes you know different creatures are mentioned and it said that the god certainly made a mistake when god created this or that kind of creatures how do you know did god tell you said oh boy did that was a bummer well it uh it doesn't really work that way the architect puts a plan on the board a thought It's a thought form in the mind stuff.

And there are certain rules, that is, there are ways and methods that have to be utilized to bring these various images into correlation with the individuals that have the affinity for that particular idea or picture. And it's expressed and this occurs in in systems of we pointed out before in systems of cycles there was a time in your evolution on this planet that is if you're a planet born of this planet there was a time where where you didn't know in any way, shape, or form how to choose the proper kind of parents in order to have the kind of vehicle you would need to, say, eliminate the most karma from your lives.

Now there was such a time and for some of you this it's still so with others of you you've reached a point where you've had enough experiences and enough cycles so that you are able to make choices in other words you've become more familiar with the rules of the game so to speak if you want to call it a game I don't see why not or you can call it other things also because sometimes it's a pretty tragic game and this we have to learn to overcome the point is then that we all have to go through learning cycles these learning cycles usually are the cycles that we call the vernal cycle we all have to go through cycles where we carefully practice whatever we've been learning so it becomes more second nature in other words so that it'll become subconscious and that is through the early part of the summer then at the height of the summer when we have summer solstice we have the cycle that goes through our lives basically these are cycles that correlate with other things it doesn't mean in summer you're going to have the most fulfillment of this or that image just means that your soul has a cycle of its own that correlates with the cycles of the planet in a different way the planet has to do with the cycles of the vehicles that it's growing to express specialized things and the cycles you you go through in incarnation after incarnation where you die and you're reborn this has to do with the cyclic learning and the karmic repercussions that is the things you did right the things you did wrong that come to you through various incarnations because we have as ezekiel said in the bible wheels within wheels within wheels and so we have varying kinds of cycles cycles for all of us those who've become spiritual aspirants have decided they are going to take their personality in hand they're going to do everything they can to improve it to make the personality express the highest moral concepts possible now these people have obviously reached a very high personal cycle and these are the people more apt to be able to also choose their parents and other conditions for a next incarnation where they're able to eliminate more of the pain producing experiences than they had had been able to do previously.

Now, when we come then to what we see in the cycles of life and death, remember how fearful people just really do become over death. We're afraid of losing our loved ones. Naturally so. We'd be monsters if we weren't.

Anyone who says that's wrong, you shouldn't, just uh well obviously they haven't been going through any suffering if they can tell somebody else it's wrong you shouldn't feel this grief what you have to do is try to help the other person out of the grief not just you know as you sit on your holy stone you're not in grief because nothing caused you to grieve you know some people are called so very highly evolved because they They never fall into the trap of temptation.

Has it ever occurred to others that some people have such a weak drive and weak souls that there's nothing there to get tempted very strongly?

They can run around then and be the holier than thou. For different people there are different degrees of temptation.

And because of this I think when we think about it meditate it realize that this is part of all the cycles of living dying growing we become more compassionate and without becoming more compassionate we're not as apt to bring about to ourselves the kind of experience that's going to to help us know that death is an illusion and that immortality is not something you have to gain. Immortality is really something you have. What you have to gain is awareness of your immortality, which you cannot really do properly until you have placed yourself on the path have placed yourself on the path the type of path that has plenty of light shining on it so that you won't go off into erroneous paths the light shines you can read your signals better you know that's one of the reasons the tree of life has been called the map of consciousness and obviously there are the paths which our souls travel.

With Jesus, we have a story here that is extraordinarily powerful, beyond what people usually think it means. Because, you see, the story of Jesus isn't just the history, the correlation, the story of a specific soul called the rabbi Jesus of Nazareth who attained to the Christ it's something more because this whole story of Jesus is a story of humanity in its totality as well as a story of the individual now how do we know this or how can we prove it. This is really more to the point. Well, those of us who have enough interest in researching these things and reading about them and in meditating and yearning for truth and seeking it out have come to know certain things, some from the research of scholars, some from one's own researches plus one's own experiences now when I hate to continuously allude to it but when you're trying to help somebody have an experience or to prepare somebody for an experience which is what our work is all about we are training ourselves to have the experiences of reality are we not well when we are trying to therefore bring to prepare others for the experience you there's only one place you can go you have to go back with your own consciousness to your own experience that's why a teacher will never be a teacher who can give you as a gift a special outpouring which you can receive like sometimes it comes like a wave sometimes it comes like light it comes in many ways no teacher can give you an experience that he or she hasn't had but it goes beyond that sometimes people will have experiences because other individuals in the group have had them not necessarily the teacher I've seen that happen several times with a group of people. They all went off following the wrong person, because the one who is the real knower in the group, I happen to know him, and he wouldn't open his mouth for anything. The one who is the real knower in that group never said a word, and then after the class was over, off they went, thinking that it was the teacher on that particular platform had given them the experience but it was actually a very extraordinary adept who had come gone to that place and had just sat and emanated because there were several disciples that were being they called home silently and telepathically by the way and I knew one of them that was being being called home. That's how I happen to know of that particular situation. Well, the story of Jesus is one of those stories that Jung would call the type of story that belongs to the archetypal unconscious. Now, he, you know, most scientists like to dream up the the fanciest words they can.

And the less understanding the word is, the more they love to use it. They give new words and sentences and expressions and phrases to so many things that things that were actually simple, they succeed in making most complex.

And then they sit around being very superior with their superior knowledge by using all these complex terms. I'm happy to say that our younger group of scientists are much more intelligent and they're starting to unload themselves of this unnecessary baggage in a great many areas humanity according to the secret wisdom remember is not a whole bunch of manynesses there are are manynesses in expression but humanity is really considered to be one vast being and one of the names that's been given has been begotten of god see we're going in we're sort of whirling our ways inward now to the actual title from the cycles that are larger trying to bring them in together to a core, to a center. So we have this curling inward, and in the inward coil those who are really ready to recognize or to experience something something deep and high, start becoming aware of the fact that there's an undercurrent kind of vibration that they haven't been aware of before.

Now, sometimes you're not aware of the vibration, but an awful lot of people do become aware of this vibration. As a result of doing very specific practices there are these individuals who become aware of the fact that humanity is really a one being in the Bible and in other of the secret wisdom teachings it's referred to as being the image and likeness of God which remember we call also generic humanity which is Adam that's the literal meaning generic humanity and according to the level that humanity arrives at you have two different items involved here the more highly evolved group of human beings who have arrived at a sensing of their own unity with what we might call the Messiah consciousness, the Redeemed, the Redeemer, the Divinely Begotten. These are the individuals who are very close to becoming aware of the implication of being part of that aspect. In other words, the whole individual is called some call it christ but christ remember is just the greek word for the anointed and the word mashiach in hebrew and that means the the anointed means king and the The king of Israel is really generic humanity achieving its highest level of self-knowing.

Now every individual, like you and I, we're each individualized aspects of this one being.

As individualized aspects of this one being, we have something that is unique, that is individualized, but the I that we experience and feel in this individualized way is not a different I than Joe Doakes or than people you hate, which I is a sad thing to contemplate, as well as people you love.

The point is that if every cell in this body thought that it was unique and on its own and not part of anything but just its own selfhood it would be in a state of delusion but if it knew that it was a cell working with a group of other cells that are working with a group of other cells then it would be more on the line or the would be more on the path of opening itself up and out into the kind of blossoming flower that we definitely would have to call the vernal equinox because the vernal equinox is when you see all of this new life coming forth and that means you've had a tough time behind that there've been tears that they've been lost and there's been dead there has to have been because all of growth is compression, expansion, taking in, going out. And the central portion of the Qabalistic tree of life, this beauty here, actually even called the sphere of the sun, which is S-U-N.

You know, light is used a great deal. It's because when you experience the center of your being, there's one experience amongst many that you will have maybe some of you have had flashes of it and that experience will make you know not think not wonder it will make you know that the core of you that says I was never born the core of you that says I will never die that core of you which says I cannot die it must live it has immortal life it was born immortal but born immortal in a special way being born immortal means that for everything as if you will recall the teachings of of BOTA continuously tell you that everything is begotten of God, that there isn't a thing that hasn't been given birth to by God. Whether you want to think of a star or a galaxy, whether you want to think of living creatures or anything that is, all of these things can be only one place and that's in God, if they are in the experiencing part of consciousness, where they're interacting with each other as though they were separate, then they are in that plane or that level where they're working out those projected images that we were talking about and becoming familiar with these projected images because of being so attuned to them.

The moment you really sit down and contemplate enough the significance of these few words that everything that is everything is of god and is in god and cannot be outside of god so that when we say it is begotten of god we even there we have to be careful not to think of begotten of god like when we beget an offspring you know we can sit and we can look at that offspring and say oh gosh look what god and I have brought I mean that's what I do with my daughter you know I say look what god and I have brought and then I look at my grandsons and every trait I see that I like I say that he gets after me and they say well what about that trait I said no that's a bad one that comes from the other side of the family that's not that's that's not me take care of it we think that we're looking outside there or something we don't realize that just like we're looking inside our own heads when we're uh really looking inside our own heads when we're seeing things that are outside we don't realize that the same thing is true in the experience of ourselves as being many.

So it's because we are not the many. We are in an awareness of being part, apart.

And this feeling of being apart is the real hell, by the way. And that's what makes us feel the fears of death for ourselves and for others. But the moment we have that experience, and this is what all the training here is about, to make that as part of what you are to experience it is so that you can experience that portion of yourself where you know that you cannot cannot that portion cannot die personalities can change call those death but they're like dresses you take them on you throw them off you put them on you throw them off every single one of us is going to die Let's face it, every single one of us has died untold numbers of untold thousands of times, every single one of us.

But the time will come when death is ready for a particular personality grouping, when when there won't be the remotest fear, there won't be the remotest cringing, there won't be the remotest need to go and hide or forget, because while we are realizing the fact that this personality has to go, but the best way to let it go is to keep changing it, you know. You keep transmuting yourself, and the going becomes ever more pleasant. But basically when you do have this experience and you have it by practicing the work that we give you to practice when you do have this experience when you you had the the impact of the realization that there's something in you that says I now each of you think I I I yeah now did that I become I only when you your mother gave birth to you in this lifetime can you conceive of there not being that I before your mother gave birth to you in this incarnation I doubt if any of you can you try don't you but you can't now can you we all talk about death and we know everything's got to die but can you conceive of yourself as really being dead the most you can do is sort of be in some kind of ephemeral body where you're watching everybody hoop it up maybe having hurt feelings that they're not hooping it up enough you know for the passing on of someone as marvelous as yourself and maybe that's we'd have a good point there the knowing oneself to be eternal to be really immortal is a dangerous thing as is shown in genesis when god said no we are going to have to send adam that is humanity out of the garden of eden lest they eat of the stretch their hand out to eat of the fruit of that tree of life right there that's the tree and if they had done that if you discovered that you had eternal life in the area of your consciousness which is the lower level consciousness you would have no more drive to evolve yourself you would not be hit against all the time with the sorrows the fears the the instabilities and the very goal that your own inner higher self has set for you wouldn't be obtainable so we had to be sent out of the Garden of Eden and we are really on our way back to the Garden of Eden and may for some of us we're partially in it already but for all of us it is possible to know that when according to what we read in the Bible when a man was born who was named Jesus, and when, after he had gone through his period of teaching and training in the original Qabalistic training school that he received it, it was one of the Essene Brotherhoods, one of them that incidentally was the, they were called the Marrying Essenes, because they didn't insist on celibacy.

They permitted marriage and families under special conditions of using them for spiritual purposes.

That's another long, long, long subject. But he was definitely a member, geographically and spiritually, of one of these Essene brotherhoods of which we are a direct line. And the direct line that we are includes and involves such things that were rather rare for them that that is that men and women were received into this brotherhood on equal basis that marriage was permitted provided the people went through enough of the cleansings and purifications so so that they would be capable only of bringing into manifestation a spiritual soul.

Because the purification of the parents and their practicing spiritual union instead of the usual carnal kind of very unwholesome union, it makes a great difference sometimes in the ability to attract a soul that might have a very vast work to do for the world anyway in the case of jesus definitely everyone seemed to be aware of what was being done for why so jesus was given his full training and at the proper age he came out into the world and announced himself then as a teacher and he said many times through his ministry as you all know that that there are certain things have to be done yet certain things have to be taught yet before he must leave that when he leaves he was going to return to try to to show the disciples and others what is in store for all. This is the point. What is in store for all? And so he went through exactly the entire ritualistic story of the evolution of humanity, which had been performed in the sacred halls of the esoteric Qabalistic teachings for thousands of years.

He went through this and he was crucified in exact accordance to this ritual.

He was also put through various details that were already on record, incidentally.

And it's only a short time ago that manuscripts were found.

They were actually found that were dated four to six hundred years before Christ in which the entire story of Jesus is told of our Master Jesus of the birth, of problems of the persecution of the death and of the resurrection it's all told and there was a great to-do the many of our religionists had themselves all kinds of nervous breakdowns because they were afraid that that was going to nullify the basis of their religion but of course they were that was very foolish of them the mistake they were making is not to realize that that if a thing is archetypal it doesn't also keep it from becoming personal it's a matter of fact any deep archetypal truth that is expressed and practiced ritualistically through the inner plane contacts that have been made by those who've gone before it must these experiences must become manifested outwardly in some kind of ritualistic form in order to get a center to develop an electromagnetic center for more and more people to be gathered in together as an attraction point so they didn't have reason to be so upset although they were and today we can we can show you that here with these dead sea scrolls but not only that that the story of the master jesus is the story exactly every detail was exact even to the various names and a lot of these names remember cabalistic because you go into to gematria you find there they have specialized meanings so we have here an esoteric ritualistic story that is actually a secret ritual as of from of old and you have this story found to have been put away secretly in the one of the Essene monasteries amongst the wild hills of Galilee and some people hearing this say well then that makes me lose my makes me lose my faith in jesus which is foolish and some people say well now at least I can start having some faith in jesus that's smart that is smart because jesus himself didn't claim to be anything more than he claimed everybody else was he claimed to be begotten of God he said my father and I are one and then he called that same father your father so didn't you notice how we referred to that same God as your father well if his father and your father are the same is he something distinctly different or is he your elder brother it sounds pretty serious when we want to think of morals if it weren't that we're able to properly interpret this interpret it with gratitude and love we have then proof of a reality that has to do with the ability for the divine divine love itself to step in and to say to you look here's an example there have been other examples and there will be other examples but it's going to be up to you to practice to bring to do everything in your power to work for the experience where you're going to be able to say as so many of your brothers and sisters are able to say now, and they're growing.

They're growing by leaps and bounds.

They're able to say, My Father and I are one.

I am divinely begotten.

Everything that exists is divinely begotten. I have never been born.

I am never going to die. This is true of you you do you realize you can't die do you realize you might want to die in every way shape and form and you can't now that's something to complain about but knowing this ah I want to remind you this is a day of happiness this day the beginning of the cycle where we discover we're resurrected but we didn't die after all oh wow was that a close call this well when we can sort of joyously celebrate our elder brother and all our other elder brothers and sisters and throw ourselves into that whole spirit with that feeling and that realization of unity that that implies don't you think it's also a very good day to sort of enter into the spiritual obligations that make man so much more joyous than he is to enter into that self-remembering that we can do as often as we can to enter into the recognition of the fact that everybody we meet is in the same boat with us you remember Jesus said except ye all remain in this boat ye shall none come to land I think we should start taking these things to heart a little more profoundly some of us than we have done.

If we can work at greater inspiration by thinking of the whole story of our beloved Master Jesus in a personal sense, there's no reason why we shouldn't.

And if we are the sort of person or temperament that can't, it won't hurt anything, but it certainly helps us to love those who've been loving and helping us.

And it helps us even more to remind ourselves every single day.

I am immortal.

Therefore, I can't get away with anything.

I simply can't get away with anything.

Because I'm immortal, that being the case, I guess I'd better try to become as loving and disciplined a child of God as I can and please, my brothers, my sisters, will you help me to do that? Say that to each other.

Happy Easter.
