Always we have levels of consciousness. Some are simple, some are complex, depending on what level we're talking about, that are degrees of the one consciousness doing its work for the whole. you know every cell in your body is doing its work for the whole and when it doesn't it becomes destructive then you can't keep your body very much longer it finally goes where all bodies go and you find yourself in your subtle vehicles and some people call you a dead duck and others will say oh they passed away you know so it depends on their their their level of consciousness as as to how they're going to express even that.

And some will suddenly discover that here was a living saint, though they may have been wishing them dead ten times a day before that.

But all of a sudden, the minute they're dead, they're living saints.

And other consciousnesses may react in different ways. So, you know, I imagine God has quite a good time of it with the ability to express such a variety of selfhood, don't you? And if you think that it isn't God also expressing that which is negative, well, I'm afraid I'm going to have to disagree with you.

But, of course, God isn't expressing negative because there's a choice of being negative. God is growing degrees of consciousness.

And the divine mind, the one, the only, knows very well that an infant consciousness has to behave in an infantile level and you have to let them behave that way till they learn to be more grown up.

So it isn't, in this area, it isn't a choice of evil. It's just a matter of having enough experience to develop the wisdom which we spoke about. You are the product of divine wisdom, the creation of divine wisdom. hokma is the expressing aspect that is divine wisdom for the crown the glory because it is said of the divine father he wears the crown now there's the crown you see the one the indivisible so that's actually the true level of our divine father's consciousness your divine father now Now what would the goals turn out to be then in a practical manner from your point of view?

Well, in a practical manner from your point of view, if we, say, skip the principles of evolution, which we'll have to because we haven't got time to give you the whole thing in one talk anyway.

We're just sort of pointing at little bits to give you a little insight as to what the hierarchy involves. then if we will realize that within the hierarchy we have all these different levels and that our level is within that degree where we have already consciously dedicated ourselves to the attainment of the divine wisdom, the divine understanding and the ability and capacity to express the powers of these attainments that means we're willing to take life and have faith in it you know isn't that an extraordinary thing how many people really have faith in life how many people stop to think about it do you have faith in life do Do you?

How many here don't? Well, you don't have to give yourself away.

Keep it secret.

But you know, we do. We fear. We're full of fears. We're full of terrors. These fears and these terrors are because we do not have faith in life. But the truth is that the goals of life are definitely without any question to grow its degrees of consciousness into a capacity for more livingness what is it to have more livingness when you have the capacity for a greater joy joy, for a more intense rapture, for a much deeper lovingness. When you develop the ability, and you have to work at it, it doesn't just develop by itself, and we teach you how. When you develop the ability to want to project this rapture of loving and this sweetness sweetness that comes with giving and that's a whole subject in itself the discovery that the more degrees of consciousness you have as man the more giving you do and that this giving is not a sacrifice it's an ecstasy it's a rapture it's like the giving a mother has when she's nursing her baby you know she is just full of a very special kind of rapture unless she's been conditioned not to be able to have it and it's even the rapture that every man knows when he's taking proper care and nurturing you know the woman he loves there's a very special joyousness and rapture that comes to every man when he really loves it could be a child or a friend or his polarity but in each way with its varying qualities this capacity to be more to do more to express more haven't you seen people who you figure the you don't know how they manage to walk around they look like they should have been in their grave long ago because they just they march around not here they're not here their consciousness isn't here they're not living they're living and they're they keep their consciousness in a blank now this you must guard against this because the inertia that's the inertia side that fights evolution everything sort of struggles to to keep itself like it was.

And this inertia pulls us and pulls us. And this is what we have to struggle against, really, more than anything. The inertia that just says, I don't want to meditate today, or I don't want to study today, or I'll do it later, and that sort of puts off the controls. You have to develop your disciplines and your awarenesses every minute, every day, to whatever degree possible and then you discover that to the degree that you have placed these reactions under your rulership you know king you are the begotten of the king of the universe and you are therefore also a ruler a ruler right there in malkuth when you discover that you can control so many of these things that brought you sorrow sorrow the thing that happens is that you develop a greater opening of your ability to channel the aid from the hierarchy because you see on this tree of life those who are aspirants they're just below the tree now remember though some of you may have attained to the number six already in a previous incarnation but not until you have a certain number of incarnations within each or specific number of incarnations within specific grades of consciousness can you be said to have that grade as is put by the qabalists so that you can have had initiation into a certain Sephirah or through a certain path.

And yet you might still have to go through what many consider complete recapitulations because it has to get fixed and deepened into the soul in order to become a permanent part of your soul's powers, yours, where you can really be said to have, to own that path or the expressions of that path.

So when you are just an aspirant who have never yet taken the dedications and obligations, usually you're considered a probationary. now or probationer probationary initiate and no one knows who is what by the way ever even the masters of wisdom can't exactly determine the degree of attainment within certain frameworks they can within larger frameworks but not within the smaller frameworks then there's the grade that actually has had initiation into the tree. That means that from then on they're going to have to be coping with the caribbean who guard the Qabalistic tree of life.

And they guard it so that only those who are able to handle the powers will be able to get there and start climbing that tree.

Because the energies are too strong for those who have not yet linked themselves you know with the full determination to follow these laws of creative being and from that initiation into the Qabalah where you sort of learn gradually that the caribbean are there guarding the tree in order to protect man not to keep him from a goody-goody because he can poison himself trying to get a thing that he isn't yet ready for hasn't evolved towards you then have your different Qabalists and you know we have many Qabalists throughout the world who've never heard the word Qabalah or the word occultism who actually are very highly developed disciples disciples going through certain recapitulations in order to be able to more firmly establish a certain power from the development of a grade that isn't fully finished and these types are never brought to a system such as this you know our qabalistic system because they are working out another aspect of their nature that has to be more firmly deepened and made available to them so don't think that those who are signed members of BOTA are the only ones that isn't true there are even other grades that are taken care of I mean other types of training that are there for those types who are not able to take the complexities of Qabalah yet and so they make grade in other ways but then wherever you are really within a cycle of your degree of evolution where you're able to go from one degree of your own personal evolution to a next to a next step then you're guided if you've been passing your tests then you're guided to us if you are doing it the qabalistic way that is you're guided to us and you're given the teaching and training to help you receive what you need to bring you into the next step and that will you will come over and over again within several incarnations until you have it well established then you may have one or two incarnations where it has to get attested it all varies with the different people the goal of those the goals of those who've gone before you are always to aid those just behind it's always to aid them in attaining their next step of evolution the next step in evolution always involves helping the aspirant to gain more livingness more capacity for testing their livingness via experience more wisdom and understanding because of this experience and that's why it becomes so necessary to be within a system especially one like this because you are given all of the guides you have not only you know things like ropes to hang on to on each side as you're going through territory that may be dangerous but you find that every once in a while when the side supports aren't strong enough you'll find there's something that's dangling down from above for you to hang on to and you may feel rocky with it but that dangling from above is the help you're getting from your own personal teacher who has you now your personal teacher you may never have met or you may be sitting before you know usually it's very hard to be that certain but still you all have a personal teacher that is a step ahead of you although you may be further along in other portions of your nature and you may have to reverse the roles in in the next incarnation because this is how the whole hierarchy functions and its final goal as you know is to bring into expression enough of the degrees of consciousness in humanity so that the consciousness will be strong enough to negate the ugly hate-ridden selfish self-centered bloody kind of power-driven consciousnesses that we run into all the time if we watch our tv news and read our tv newspapers but i want to remind you that all of these horror stories remember they're gathered specifically you get a very warped story if you listen to just what you get via magazines and TV news and newspapers because they are after the garbage.

They're trying to give you all the artificial horror thrills that they can because, oh, listen to this gory story. And yeah, we get together like that. Look at that gory story and we concentrate it like that. avoid it avoid it like the plague because that is the real demon or that is the real demoniacal energy that interferes with your being able to gain the controls you're destined to gain you You are on the path or paths of a goal whose ending ultimately, and that's not so far from now, whose ending ultimately is going to be the brotherhood of man here on earth in expression. Remember what I said, that each thing has to be expressed before it is accomplished. This is the way the entire evolution of the universe works from its smallest atom to its largest galaxy.

And you have been specially blessed and privileged to be brought into the most intense portion of the training. You have the greatest opportunities because you are certainly already passing from one grade or degree of being into a higher. and some of you may even be destined to go through many many of these degrees in this lifetime where you're under one of those special incarnations being tested to see how well do you hold a whole group of accomplishments in order to go to your next step bear in mind you are never alone the moment you signed your name to the roster of bota you linked yourself with a body of light that whose time goes back so far we don't even know when it started we all we can give you is an approximate six thousand years that we know about but we can't tell you about part portions we don't know about yet but you are right now within the heart of this training and therefore you are receiving the most intense aids that exist you are surrounded by these hosts of consciousnesses and indeed you are supplying your consciousness to other hosts that are below you who except for you would not be able or won't be able to make the grade because remember we have to have a certain percentage always there you go back to your number of centers of divine evolution in man in order to finally overcome the level that is that keeps people so savage and then those who who can't make that lowermost absolute requirement, are going to have to step back and await the next life wave before they can again enter the stream of evolution, you know, at the point where they had attained it before, and then be given the chance to go on again, which eventually, very eventually, they will.

But it's going to be up to you, and that's why I try to go into some detail with you, a thing I don't often do, to help you to see the way the principle works.

And if I succeed it even a little, it will certainly make me happy. And what have you got to lose? All you've got to lose is sorrow, insecurity, hatred, fear, boredom, and loneliness.

That's all you've got to lose.

What you've got to gain, I think you're starting to see.
