Our talk for this morning is how to contact the hierarchy. That's quite a bit to try to speak about. I can never give all of the aspects of any subject. As you know, what I do is give what is succinct for this time, this period. I I tune in to your need of the moment, of the day, of the week, of the month. And we share together that portion that needs awakening, stirring, nourishment, nurturing.

And so this morning, I'm going to try to share with you a few of the principles that are involved in contacting the hierarchy and what contacting the hierarchy really involves. At least this is what we will attempt.

Now then, let's consider for a moment what we think of as the hierarchy.

The hierarchy, in essence, is really similar to Jacob's ladder. It is a vibratory line of energies and all energies are levels of consciousness but it is a vibratory line of energies which include and involve that that vibratory rate to which we are able to contribute and to which we are able to align ourselves so that we can also receive.

This is something that is not often recognized. Let me give you an example or two. A person who is deaf cannot align himself with a vibratory level that gives the auditory range in the usual ranges especially because nothing happens the sound is there but it can't be heard this is a very important thing for you to keep in mind the sound is there but but it can't be heard.

Now a person who suffers from certain visual problems, if a person happens to be very near-sighted, the distant scene is there, but it can't be seen.

Of course now, thank God, we have certain corrections with glasses. But bear in mind that hearing something is a vibratory range. Seeing something is a vibratory range. Anything we see and anything we hear is an awareness of a vibratory range. Our modern scientists have mapped some of these ranges of sensory perception in an extraordinary way very extraordinarily and it has a great deal of meaning because remember all of occult aspiration all of occult development all of occult power is based on awakening to and learning how to properly use vibratory ranges and the The different vibratory ranges actually involve the ability to receive as well as send on that particular vibratory level. Remember shortwave radio has a certain vibratory range. We don't hear it on our regular radios, but those who have particular kinds of sets send and receive to each other and we are unaware. The radio range waves that make it possible for our astronauts to be in communication with our extraordinary and large group of scientists, these are in a very specific range and so they are able to communicate with each other, then we sit in front of TV eagerly waiting to receive the news. But we have to wait for the communication to have taken place between the astronauts that are out of our atmosphere with the particularly built and attuned radio sets, and then redistributed through the other sets so that finally on TV or radio we are receiving a replay and or a report of a vibratory communication.

Please bear this in mind. It has everything to do with the contact with the hierarchy and also with understanding how much illusion and delusion can take place in this area, in this realm, as well as how much glorious guidance we can receive if we have the patience that scientists have to test and try and test and try. And a cultist is supposed to be scientists. Scientists, scientists in the science of the mind, of the heart, of the soul, of the usage of these things, which are not separate from what we are speaking of when we speak of vibratory ranges. Now remember that again, even in our modern science, it has certainly been discovered that our thinking has a vibratory range and patterns so that they can take graphs by putting electrodes in the brain and asking questions and so on doing many other things and watching both the thinking processes and the feeling processes as they relate to electrical graphs that take place as a result of the activity of thought, emotion, and emotion is not different from thought.

Emotion is one half of thought. Consciousness in itself is half emotion, half analytical aspect and awareness of and with emotion. Motion. So you have ranges here of a vibratory kind of something. The ability therefore to be attuned to any vibratory level has to do with the vehicle, the training of the vehicle, and the building of the vehicle to be able to receive and or send or both usually it has to be both but not always to receive and or send on that vibratory range or level and in occultism in the Western occultism of Tarot and Qabalah which has been taught to the chosen few for so many thousands of years. One of the first principles that an aspirant has to learn is that all things are a matter of vibratory range but that it is consciousness which is the real vibratory rate and it is the cosmic substance that receives, sends, and acts on these ranges pretty much like the unrecognized but definite lines of force which our scientists have become more and more familiar with this peculiar electric electromagnetic force which surrounds the earth you know how radio transmission is interfered with you've all read about it in the newspaper at least if you haven't been interested in this phase otherwise how all kinds of radio and TV communications are interfered with sending and receiving whenever for example we have sunspot activity of a more intense kind going on in the Sun now this is important to remember again what is it that happens now here people are attempting to send and receive but because sunspot activity is going on there's interference we have We have periods where our TV goes into what seems like an insanity, and we have times when our radios go off into these awful squawks and squeals, which is another kind of insanity to us.

Meaningless, raucous noises.

And we wonder, what's wrong with the machine?

Well, what we do not stop to realize is that our machines are made to register, to receive, and to send within certain vibratory ranges that deal with the electromagnetic spectrum. And this electromagnetic spectrum, when it goes into an extra intense activity, disturbs our receiving and sending, and you've all experienced it. We all experience it often and our experience of this interference mainly has to do with one rate of vibrations coming in and not being able to harmonize with and therefore blacking out or partially blacking out whatever whatever vibrations are involved with our usual on the earth radio wave sending receiving tv sending receiving etc on the magnetic tapes now certainly it's also been shown that around our Earth we have this well the Van Allen belts are part of it and we have the these two areas on planet Earth which receive the emanations that have have to do with sunspots, incidentally, only when they get so overactive, which at all time are receiving the wavelength level from the sun, the radiations, taking them in at the poles.

And in a way you might say protecting the earth from receiving too high, too intense a vibration. If we didn't have these magnetic receiving spots on the North and South Pole that have to do with the outpourings from the sun where you have many different vibratory rates going from the neuron that doesn't know the planet is there and goes all the way through it, you know no, not the neutron, it's called the neutrino you know to the other wavelengths we have so many of these different vibratory levels that when they are in their most extreme and rapid state we don't even know they are they exist just like you and I in our usual consciousness cannot really see something like shall we say archangels or angels or thought forms or emotional forms because these have to do with vibratory rate. When we hear anything within the area in which we live it's a vibratory rate that is pulsing back and forth, in other words it's a matter of motion and speed, within a medium that we call air which registers in a little receiving something that we call the philia in the ear and provided everything else in this receiving station for sound is all right we experience music sound of various kind but we can't we don't experience sound in the ultrasonic ranges on the conscious level and yet it can destroy us it's going on but we're not aware of it and so if we had no knowledge that ultrasonics for example exist and ultrasonics go into a range of sound vibration in the air that's so high and rapid that we are utterly unaware except through a machine if we didn't know that this exists the ultrasonic wave could make people for example and God forbid drop dead and we wouldn't know what to call it so we would dream up a reason ultrasonic smashes kidney stones gallstones if it's put too long in any part of the body it can damage it in other words it tears down that which is a vibratory rate of our bodies when it goes beyond a certain rate and yet when it was a it is within another rate it creates heat and warmth and circulation and when it was is within a lower rate yet it doesn't have too much effect so that those of us who have achieved a certain shall we say cell structure that goes at one vibratory rate we are in a sense impervious to to very much lower ones, though we're not impervious to certain levels of the lower.

But it's a matter of how large, you know, are you open to or receptive to, say, five inches of radiation or vibration below the level of humanity?

Or is it 100 inches? This varies with people. And are you open to and are you able to handle say one inch five inches or a hundred inches I'm just deliberately giving it in this way so those of you who know nothing of science at all can at least see the principle therefore if we are open to five or hundred or any amount of shall we say increase of rapidity, of vibratory rate. If we have the kind of mechanism or organism which is in harmony with that rate, then we react harmoniously. If we are not in harmony with it, we either are unaware of it, like the neutrino from the sun is unaware that the planet exists it goes right through it like it's nothing just like it's empty space like a bullet might go between two stars in the heavens it'll give you a better idea what happens uh this might occur then it just go through us and isn't there for us which is true of the very lowly evolved types of consciousness by lowly I don't mean evil I mean those who are functioning on a vibratory rate of consciousness and awareness that have not remotely achieved or the mammal stage for example as yet or if we have achieved an ability to take in certain portions of it but haven't yet achieved the capacity to hold and express this these higher more more spiritual vibratory rates, we could decide they're destructive because they're breaking down things in us, like an ultrasonic breaks down a kidney stone.

We can, under certain higher vibratory rates, which we're not prepared to handle, we can feel that we're being destroyed, dissolved, and yet in occultism we're told that we have to become dissolved resolved in order to reassemble ourselves, similar to the idea of the caterpillar changing into a butterfly. Yet every human being has a different vibratory rate that that level of consciousness within this person is able to take in and give out. And the whole secret of contact with the hierarchy is involved in this vibratory rate or radio receiving sending station or TV receiving sending station. In other words, we are all a very special kind of vibratory rate of consciousness, each and every one of us. All All of humanity shares in one particular band, which you might think of as a band that has a very rapid rate indeed, but that goes, say, one foot or 12 inches up and down. All of humanity is within the band, which gives ability for self-consciousness or the development and evolution of self-consciousness, which gives the various abilities that are common to all human beings anywhere on the earth, no matter what their evolutionary level.

In other words, that's the thing that is shared as common humanity. But within this range of, let's put it 12 inches, just to give us a graphic image, within this range of 12 inches, we have the different rates from both the lower and the higher that is those who can take in the more rapid rates within the 12 inches or those who take in mostly the slower rates within the 12 inches of up and down and also you might call it in sense timing because the larger or an area this is just for your imagery to try to tune you into an idea which will help you to realize just what attunement to the higher forces involves so bear in mind for that for example all of humanity no matter what they are whether they be savage cannibals or in in the Stone Age part of civilization or the most gloriously highly attuned, brilliant intellectual and spiritual beings, all share in one area of a vibratory something, which is consciousness, an ability to be human being.

And this is what makes the ability to grow, the human vehicle within the mother's womb even. You know it involves all of these things just like you're the kind of radio you've got whether it be a tiny one that gives you static and only a few stations to the kind that wipes out static and gives you the attunement that is so fine that you can take in stations all over the area you know the difference you've all I'm sure had different radios of different quality well our bodies and are like these radios but our bodies are the result of our consciousness because the consciousness is really what makes the force field the force field which which includes this electromagnetic area.

And therefore, what our consciousness is or has become on the evolutionary scale, plus how well with that consciousness we've been able to build our instrument for this particular incarnation on Earth. This is what determines the vibratory rate of broadcast we'll be able to receive from how large an area you know some radios just keep you within the city or even just within the one station and others bring in broadcasts from the whole earth even from outer space are you starting to see the picture consciousness then your consciousness my consciousness all consciousness receives a certain vibratory rate reacts to this rate and therefore receives whatever has been broadcast on that beam or wavelengths and also broadcast back out on that beam or wavelength and of course one of the sad things with so many human beings is that everyone has a need to feel that they receive the largest area of bands or you know wavelengths and and also broadcast the finest and most perfect because really of this lack of insight and perception into the whole principle of the way consciousness works.

Now, the hierarchy could be explained in many, many ways, but for this morning, and I usually try to give you every area of approach possible so that all parts of you can see, analyze, study, meditate, and therefore open yourselves to the real principle. But the hierarchy, for this morning at least, we will try to think of in a special way, though that isn't the only way we think of it. But let's bring our minds together and think of the hierarchy as being the variegated levels, vibratory levels of consciousness with their instruments for both receiving and sending the rates of vibration which has to do with the quality along with the quantity of thinking and feeling. This is very important. Quality and quantity of thinking and feeling actually are what involve the receiving and sending that which we are is the range in which we receive that which we aspire towards we occasionally suddenly get a tune in on a station that we can't hold haven't you had a subtle station come in sometimes when you're trying to get something on your radio TV doesn't show it as much but the radio does and yet it couldn't come in you tried and you you put the dial this way and that way and this way and that way and yet occasionally suddenly there'd be but you somehow couldn't get it in sharp well this is what happens with aspirants when they're meditating and attempting attempting to experience truly higher spiritual levels.

To begin with, there's that wavering needle that can't take it in. The instrument, let's say the radio, isn't strong enough, or the station that's broadcasting isn't strong enough, but even a strong enough broadcasting station has to have a receiving radio radio that's geared to that wavelength beam in order to get a proper broadcast for receiving whatever the message is, whether it's a lot of insistence that you better have zero type 0007 in order to gain your man or woman, you know, that's a broadcast beam, or whether it's a broadcast beam that gives you the most glorious symphonic music or other kinds of melodious tunes and tones or something that inspires your mind into thought and wonder you have different kinds of broadcasts that affect you in in the different ways. Now, we receive then the actual thinking feeling of the universal consciousness. Remember, universal consciousness means basically that within that universal consciousness, we have different levels of consciousness that are geared to the different wavelength beams, both receiving and sending.

Because universal means all-inclusive, doesn't it? And therefore, within the universal, you have just as much the consciousness of the fool, of the criminal, the immature, as you do of the saint, the angel, and the master. You have a universal ocean of consciousness. But within this ocean you have your different vibratory rates that have to do with the quality and quantity of ability to think and feel both for taking in and for sending out it involves the two-way stream anything that goes just in one direction becomes nothing electromagnetism really has to to do with what? What we call the electrons that go one way and the magnetism that pulls. You need two forces, and it is in the area of the two forces that you have the vibration. If you think of something that bangs back and forth, for instance, if we had something that could hit it at the back wall and front wall and let it keep going back and forth, that's a vibration. The more rapidly it went, the more rapid the vibration would be. The more slowly it went, the slower it would be.

And so your slow vibrations, your rapid vibrations, they're still not separate from the universal substance. All vibrations exist within the one universal ocean, and the one universal ocean is is the ocean of consciousness, with different levels of evolution. The evolution determines the vibratory rate, and the vibratory rate determines the quality as well as the quantity.

By quantity, we mean the distance of influence within this quality, or rapidity. Now then we have heard about the masters of wisdom so much and we've heard about the ideas of the hierarchy but what we perhaps have not stopped to recognize is that the whole idea of hierarchy involves the different vibratory levels of consciousness consciousness, and these different vibratory levels of consciousness could be thought of in ways that will be easy for you to see if I point it out to you in other ways. For example, we have the consciousness that is said to be mineral consciousness, and that is a latent consciousness, we are told. Well, what do we mean by latent? It means consciousness is not absent, it's just sort of frozen.

Waiting to be released, you know, into its activities. An embryo in the mother's womb is latent in the sense that it isn't doing its own breathing as far as its ability to breathe for itself. It's latent. It's awaiting later development. Latent. But it's there to await later development. See the very embryo in the mother's womb. Therefore, realize that daylight savings, precious ones, takes a chance of men walking in late. They're worth waiting for. Anyway, latent then has to do with something that is awaiting a later development or awakening. And in the mineral consciousness you have a type of consciousness that from our point of view is latent. Although some people say it doesn't exist. Well that's their right to say so, if this is what they think. But the fact that everything that is has a certain degree of vibratory rate and motion within it, even though it looks solid inside when you use your electronic microscopes, you know, that really really help you to see into the microcosmic world.

It is discovered that everything is in a vibratory state. Every atom is in motion.

And motion means one thing only.

Consciousness is being active.

So that a stone that we may call latent has its kind of active consciousness, but it is not evolved to the point where it is free enough or has a large enough area so it is held in one place or a rapid enough that that's the quantity I was talking about or a rapid enough vibration within its parts where it can be more adaptable to the different kinds of thinking and feeling and awarenesses so we may call it the mineral kingdom like stones, mountains, latent consciousness but those of us who've experienced the different levels and have become one with it know that what we may call latent or even non-consciousness as materialistic scientists would are really instilled in that state of of just eye ecstasy and that's all there is to it. You don't need to move, you don't need to do anything, what motion is needed, but already you have atomic aspects of the stone that are being moved, you see, and developed, because parts of the stones are gonna chip away and go into the earth.

Then they are going to mingle with what we call the next stage, those first little bits of consciousness, the virus and microscopic levels beyond that level, and that's a more rapid vibratory kind of rate that is going on within the very, you know, portion of the cosmic substance. And these little microbes, these little viruses, they are working, working, working in their vibratory area, breaking down the stones, you know, that are more or less latent.

And in the breakdown, these stones, by hook or crook, come to participate in our next higher level of consciousness. You know how the soft earth that we grow things has been formed, don't you? Through the decomposition of things like rock and stone and the mixtures of these various Shall we call them chemicals? Yet every chemical everything is a vibratory rate. Now within the microbe we have a a fantastic evolutionary jump, you know.

And our scientists think the virus is between this and there may be other things. But these jumps have to do, remember, with a vibratory rate that is an expression within the one universal cosmic substance.

However, that higher level is working on the lower level.

And so your decomposition of earth, you say, well, it's the water that did it. But the water, don't you notice, it has a greater degree of freedom than the stone and the earth in its motion. And within the water, you have other vibratory aspects mingling. There's an ability for a mingling of these vibrations, which are what? Consciousness, universal consciousness, held down, concentrated down. Down, even what seems to us frozen down for certain purposes. Then you come up through these microbe, first the virus microbe levels, and you find other vibratory levels of consciousness, each step being more complicated, that is more complex. And the greater the complexity, certainly it is very obvious the greater quality and quantity of consciousness is being held received and expressed just like in your instruments your hi-fi sets your computers and even though they make them more small and compact by discovering things like transistors sisters. The principle isn't changed, they're just miniaturizing things, trying to approach what we do. Look how compact the cells in our brains are and in our whole body. And yet these are living consciousnesses that can never die, even though we are holding them together, working. We are working on the cell consciousness of our bodies, just just like I pointed out, the microbes work on stone along and the water, the microbes in the water really do one of the best jobs through emotion, motion, unrest, motion.

But all vibration is motion.

Because vibration is a knocking back and forth at different rates. I mean, this is the best way we can try to explain it. So you come up the ladder of influence and then of course as you come up you come then to your growing things your trees, your flowers, all the greeneries and you have an extraordinarily greater kind of complexity and have you ever watched a plant break open a huge stone have you watched a plant grow out of a stone it is so inexorably powerful you know given its ability to take in vibrations like from the sun and vibrations like from the water and these are all vibrations within these mediums these plants will break through stones they're that that powerful as against the little microbes that would take a billion years to break down some of the stuff in a stone, you know. Although with the help of the washing of the ocean and the waters, it does it more readily, and it isn't one, it takes so many of them.

So you have this extra power of the plant, and it has a power to over the next level of the microbes, the viruses, although it also succumbs to them at times. Because it's degree of control but we won't go into the details of that besides I'm not familiar enough with the details of this except I'm fascinated with all these areas of consciousness and those of us who've experienced these different levels not once but know them as a natural habitat as you know your own family because we're all one family whether we're the mineral or the or the not vegetable alone, but I mean the plant kingdom as a whole, or whether we are in the animal stages, which a portion of our consciousness still is, or into the human, or into the master of wisdom and higher angelical, or archangelic and godhood levels, it is still one consciousness on different vibratory rates within this ocean now your hierarchy has to do with just this the different again I repeat it but I show it to you in this graphic picture that I hope you've taken in so your consciousness and my consciousness have gone through or shall we say that center of I has traveled through or along a vibratory rate learn to know that is to receive and send and control that vibratory area and through that reaches it has reached into the next and the next and a human being of course on this planet is that is able to take in and send out the most rapid of vibratory rates as well as the largest area because it is speed plus space although in the spiritual consciousness time which is speed really in a sense or it's one way of expressing speed and motion and space they're interrelated in the spiritual experience that goes beyond physical body one discovers that this idea of time and evolution isn't what it has seemed to us in this state state of awareness. But now, pay attention to this idea so that you'll understand contact with the hierarchy more fully. The very fact that you have achieved an evolutionary level, which gives you what we call human consciousness and all the complexity of what you are, this This very fact puts you very high on the hierarchy scale, because you could do this.

You are not only very high on the hierarchy scale, but those of you who are guided here, to me, are being exposed to the privilege, if you wish to take it, of taking your evolution in hand so that you can start increasing or intensifying your vibrations, not only speed-wise, which is part of it, but therefore space-wise, which means your consciousness, expansion of consciousness, means larger understanding, the ability for consciousness to hold larger areas all in one. For example, Now many of you have noticed some people say, look don't do this, do that, because if you do, if you don't do that, such and such will result. And you, and now some of you have said, gee that person is psychic. You know, they got it out of nothing. There's no reason for them to know this.

Others of you may have said, gee that person has an awfully good mind. They're able to analyze what's going on and project what should be done.

And I wonder, do you realize that there's no real difference when we're thinking of the forward motion of consciousness rather than the backward motion to instinct? As I've been explaining to the Thursday night class, and which we all need to understand, psychic experiences do not mean that we are going forward in the consciousness in the more rapid vibration at all because our minerals and our vegetables and our animals are all psychic so uh being a psychic is something that all consciousness has until it achieves full self-consciousness at which time temporarily temporarily it loses its psychism, though you might have lost it, say, one incarnation ago or ten incarnations ago, then started forward on a more rapid vibratory rate. And on the more rapid vibratory rate, the thing that would occur is that instead of psychism, you're starting to participate directly with the more rapid and larger areas and though there'll be mistakes because we have to learn how to handle our radios you know anytime you've gotten a new radio with new buttons and things to twist and twirl you have to learn to handle that particular one some of us learn it faster than others so that we must realize that being psychic or even having psychic powers has has nothing to do with being close to the touch of the higher consciousness in the hierarchy.

And there's nothing wrong with psychic as such, except that most people get caught up in the backward motion of powers and think it's forward motion.

In fact, most of your extra-phenomenal experience really are the psychic level. As I said, nothing wrong with this, but we get confused and mixed up. We have to learn how to handle that dial and to recognize the stations, maybe also to appreciate good music That's part of it and appreciating good music means Appreciating and accepting true teaching as against that which is excitingly Phenomenal and that seems to give us a magic that we think this world hasn't got Yet this world so called on the physical plane has as much magic as any of us can accept and entertain multiplied by untold numbers of billions except that familiarity breeds contempt and we forget to walk in miracle because we haven't yet learned how to attune our stations to a recognition of this miracle all right then now that I've warn you we mustn't confuse psychic powers and or psychic phenomena with the spiritual powers we can go on to a better understanding of hierarchy when we achieve that full self-consciousness and what do we mean by full self-consciousness now here is what I may upset a few of us but I hope not I I hope not, because it's for our greater joy and knowledge and attainment.

When we really achieve full self-consciousness, what is it that this indicates?

All right. Let's pay attention here for a while, because only then have we got a needle sharp enough to start taking in the higher levels like masters and so on. Though we think we're taking in masters remember this where we're off on the other side of the slower vibration that is through the psychic vibratory fields which is not evil but I mean it's very deluding to those who haven't learned how to understand the territory know what kind of plants to grow now Now, self-consciousness, of course, is something that we all have varying degrees.

Just like we all have radios that can sharply bring in a really sensitive, subtle station in full clarity. Instead of the mixings in heaven. You know again I remind you haven't you tried to get a certain station had one station from one side and the other from the other putting in its words and its advertisements and its pop music and its jazz music when you're trying to get some of you may have been trying to tune into pop and jazz and and be interfered with with classical music and said isn't that horrible a lot of people do that when they're being guided don't know it they call it by other names and but more often they do it vice versa and something for you to chew on at home now this ability to hold that needle of the station really has to do with the amount of self-consciousness we've got now I know all of us know we've got it all and we wish our husbands wives children and neighbors brothers and sisters would develop it. Now naturally, this is a happy way to feel. Let's feel that way.

But let's understand the aspect here. Self-consciousness has to do not only with an ability to hold to a point, or shall we say a line, like on the radio station. I'm trying to give you this image because this is what you're most familiar with but it has to do with ability to screen out on both sides of that line anything trying to come in from the vibratory level below as well as from the vibratory level above or shall we say from one side or the other it self-consciousness has to do with an ability to put full awareness on the now you've all read about the eternal now now the difference between a human consciousness as such on its most intense self-conscious level and shall we say the consciousness of of, well, not complete universal God, but something close to it, is that the slower vibratory ability to, you know, the station tuning is just, is a very limited one on the one line, but if it's completely developed, it's clear, as against that same clarity, that same clarity being able to take in the awareness of yesterday today and tomorrow in this way that if you can look at a situation put your attention on it analyze it thoroughly say well therefore this has to be done or that has to be done in other words see what kind of action is necessary in order to bring about a correction or an enlargement of the immediate situation. By being able to look to the immediate to see what should be done and be aware of it and to be able to do it, this really is a proper and full function of self-consciousness. But how many people do you know who just amble along with their head in the clouds and don't know why things happen to them? You've done it, I've done it we've all done it you know we walk around saying God is good or God is all and I'm guided by the Spirit and then when our husbands or wives run away from us or betray us or mistreat us or our children or brothers or sisters really raise havoc with us we look mournfully around and say we I don't know why this happened to me after all I love God I'm an aspirant that is not what we do all right it's just like trying to tune your radio station into a certain special area and not knowing at all where the area should be or even caring or paying attention exactly, you figure it ought to come in on its own.

You know, saying, I don't know why. The point is, if you're not alertly aware of your everyday motivations, of what you really think and feel and want, and just walk around saying, well, it'll be taken care of, you know, I've got the higher powers are with me, I'm an aspirant. They're with you all right, and you're an aspirant, but boy, the static you'll get, and that's part of what will drive you crazy enough. Who hasn't been driven crazy by static?

It'll drive you crazy enough to find out how to get rid of that static.

You may have to re-throw out some burned-out fuses in your consciousness, that's the patterns, and put in some new ones.

You may have to throw out whatever to transistorize this is or that's, which means becoming self more and more self-aware. But no problem comes to us where we could walk around like happy masochists saying I don't know why but it's my karma because that's just letting our needle waver and waver and waver all over the place it isn't having the self-consciousness and you cannot have clear contact with the higher consciousness levels when you're withering, wavering, wavering all over the place which is what we mostly do and then we say we don't know what I guess I've got bad luck we say and various things it isn't that we don't have certain problems and unhappinesses to face as part of our growth as part of the testing it's part of how you test the strength of the ability for that needle to hold this happens of course I I mean, that's another subject again. But what we must learn to see, what we must recognize, is that just saying we're spiritual aspirants is not enough.

I mean, it's just a good way to excuse ourselves away. Just saying we are benevolent is not enough. What is benevolence? If we are unconscious of our ambivalence towards another, if we say I will not leave that person or I will leave the person because of my benevolence yet at the same time in subtle ways we tear them down and believe me we do to build ourselves up if we are unaware of that ability to really learn how to look into our own motives to see what we really want is against what we say we want which doesn't mean we don't all want aspiration and attainment of course we do but I mean we have the static and which is stronger I've had my station tuned to a station that I love and all of a sudden another station comes in loud and clear and believe me I don't go for it well that happens to us we get in incursions into our own consciousness from the the lower vibratory rates.

And we have a need to interpret it as always coming from the higher. And sometimes it is.

But just as often it isn't.

And so the ability to keep our consciousness attuned in such a way that we have a larger area of awareness.

This is the point. Like looking at the here and now, watching a person, listening to what they really say, watching for what they really feel, listening to what we really think, listening to what we really feel, becoming aware of what our real motives have been as against what we've had to try to make believe they are in order to be able to say, well I'm an aspirant and that's why I have problems. You see, which isn't true a bit, though problems we all all have, aspirant or non-aspirant. This is part of the growth process of evolution. But without problems, life would be hellish. It's part of the way we handle and strengthen our self-consciousness. But without a fully self-conscious focus, and by self-conscious, I mean an ability to to remain centered in our own selfhood while at the same time vibratorily reaching out to see all of the colors in that area, to listen to all of the sounds, to project and figure out all of the possible consequences of actions.

In other words, we plan ahead. Head and those who have done this for a very very long time start doing it with lightning speed it's like when you first learn how to type it's slow finger by finger by finger and souls that have come in over and over become older and older through what exercise, experience. These cells don't have to type slowly, nor do they have to look at the letters on the keys, because their mind has the whole keyboard in consciousness at once. And their fingers, the mind sees a letter and the finger automatically touches it. It's like playing the piano the same way. Learning Learning how to play any kind of instrument. Reading, learning how to read was that way. So that your older souls, which means what? Those who have learned how to broaden their vista of vibratory intake and out projection.

These are the ones who've gone through the disciplines, who haven't said, it's my bit of Carmen, marched around, you know, with addled head in the air. Sweet maybe, but being sweet isn't enough.

You know, you have to have wisdom to know how to handle love properly, otherwise you can destroy even with your love. You know that, like spoiling people, you know, keeping them from growing. Wisdom is a part of love, because you don't love fully until you love wisely.

And that's something we're going to be taking up Thursday night. So please bear in mind that the difference really between people who seem to be able to see ahead, instead of those who are forever being surprised by the unhappy developments of what comes on, the people who are able to truly project and plan in order to avoid as many mistakes as possible who know what to expect though it isn't one thing they say well here are a group of expectations these are the people who are learning how to extend their consciousness or have learned to that that area where they're able to take past experience with the self-conscious now awareness and project what is to be because of plain experience. And those who we call masters do it the same way, except it goes with lightning speed. One look and boom, they see what has been, is, and will be within a certain periphery or area and then that extends out and that extends out depending on your evolutionary levels of persons and within the human being kingdom you know there are people with foresight and most of us afraid have more hindsight but we all have a certain amount of foresight and some have more than others but the ability to foresee what people will think what they will do you know, as a sort of experimental thing, is a matter of ability to tune in to a vibratory level.

The hierarchy as such, then, contact with the hierarchy, has to do with deciding to develop our own consciousness to the point where it can differentiate between the static and psychic tunins like the you know irritating musics that we don't want whatever kind it happens to irritate us and to be able to bring in the purity of what we do want now the masters of wisdom do not remotely contact any single human being who hasn't achieved a very large, I mean a large degree of enlargement of self-consciousness that takes in quite a bit of the past, present, with the future. It's like standing on a mountain and seeing the level where they are able to differentiate between a lot of the details that others miss. The masters of wisdom do not remotely contact them because they can't, even if they wanted to. Just like a small radio with just a few tubes can't remotely tune in to a super hi-fi symphonic concert that's taking place on the other side of the world, can it?

It's a matter of our having developed within our own structure the the reception of certain vibratory rates now the ability to do this though isn't dependent on direct contact that is to develop it with the masters because if this was so all evolution would be sunk therefore I remind you what I mentioned at the beginning, which is a very important thing. Each level of consciousness works on the one just below it, and the one just below that level serves it. So that human beings are not without guidance from or contact with the masters, but what they don't realize is that this contact and guidance is in and through the hierarchy. Now, I remember I was very outraged when I first heard about this principle. As far as I was concerned, I want direct to God and that's it, you know, and anybody else to hell with them. That's what I really felt, if you'll excuse the spiritual language. I was outraged.

What? This sounds evil to me, I said. The idea of becoming dependent on another human being for my unity with God? I was very outraged. Incidentally, I still believe it. I just didn't understand the principles. There's one consciousness and that's God, one universal life, and that's the universal God life. But within this one consciousness, this one universal life, you have your different vibratory levels that we are able to contact. And the evolutionary work we do on ourselves as human beings gives us the ability to be the receivers of contact levels that still give us guidance from the Masters so what do we have we have in our work for example going from the heart of God the levels of hierarchy and on through the Masters then the Masters disciples of which I am one and I take from one level this vibratory intake it's like you know a radio that can receive from one or a tv station receive from one level the connection and then redistribute it and this is how everything goes you do it all the time though you don't realize it we're all doing it and in essence we are being guided by the masters we're in contact with the masters and when we reach the point of the amount of power and fineness of vibration which means complete giving up of the nonsense of psychic yesterday or being tied up with psychic foolishness when we get to that point then we conserve an ever greater measure you're being given the privilege of receiving contact from a direct disciple of the Masters you're not being coerced it's your privilege and your opportunity you either build your radio station so it comes in more loud and I you know I hear you loud and clear you know or you decide you don't go for this and you wait a while this is your privilege but the whole true contact up through the hierarchy exists here there are some areas in which it is claimed to exist and is just the blind leading the the blind there are others that have mixtures but there are a few on this planet that have true contact and it is up to you to evolve your ability to to attune yourself to who you listen to and the work you're taking to see whether you have been guided at last to that which is true or not well that's about as much I think as we should say all that is gratitude to god for life and every problem of life. Gratitude to the sun for the warmth and golden gleam that you take in for the chemistry of your growth. Gratitude to the breeze that caresses your hair and your cheeks and blows the winds through the leaves and the song of the plant and carries the moisture around this planet of ours gratitude to the earth that gives us the footstool so our feet can walk and participate in the greens and growths and in breathing and out breathing of the chemistry and nutrition gratitude to the parents who've given us birth whether we loved them or didn't love them. They were channels. Gratitude to all human beings who've given us a touch of love, a touch of friendship, a touch of recognition.

Gratitude to all those who have hurt us and who have betrayed us for driving us into a need to understand and aspire and being the testing ground for our level of reaction gratitude to all that is or ever will be gratitude for the livingness in us that evolves and grows and this gratitude develops in us a need to give and when we have the need to give only then can we truly receive and it is in the image usages of the tarot training that this balance comes about more rapidly than any other way I know, and I invite you to partake of it in greater measure, if you will. And meanwhile, don't frustrate me, at least receive my love.
