My title for this morning is How to Become an Initiate.

Actually, this particular talk is going to start a series on the Sundays that I speak, in which I'm going to try to help you to understand a little more fully just what the Western Mystery Schools mean when they refer to terms like initiate, adept, master, and so on, and just what the significance is of these different terms as they relate to spiritual attainment and many other things that go along with these subjects.

So I'm starting, and each talk, of course, will be a talk in itself, but if you take in the full series, I think you'll have a much better understanding, which I will be giving twice a month on Sunday mornings. I think you'll have a better understanding of what the hierarchy consists of, and even how it exists and why it exists. Now then, let's go on to the title for this morning, and that has to do with how to become an initiate. Now, first of all, we ought to understand together what we mean by becoming an initiate. Because when we read the occult literature, we find that some schools of thought use the word initiate, where another school of thought might use the word adept, or might even use the word or term master and so we come to think of an initiate in ways other than was originally intended in the shall we say occult language sometimes it's been due to mistranslation sometimes due to the fact that people simply have not really understood the role of the hierarchy so together let's come to an understanding at least when you come here, as to what we're referring to.

And then if you like to think of these words in other ways, that's all right, but at least we'll understand each other when we speak.

Now, an initiate in the Western occult school of thought refers pretty much to what the title or the word suggests.

When you initiate anything, what is it that you do? You start something. Thing. And when you have a good deal of initiative, what is it that you are indicating? You are indicating an ability to act upon a condition or a situation with a certain degree of forcefulness. So we have, even when we go into to descriptions of the word initiate, we have ideas that basically would relate to beginning something, the start of something, and furthermore, the power to start something or to do something.

And of course, here is where we'll need to get a little more insight. Because in occultism basically of course we think a great deal in terms of initiations now this also exists naturally but when we think of initiations we have a tendency sometimes to think of initiations whether they be inner initiations or whether they be outer ritualistic forms that that relate to inner initiation states.

We have a tendency to think or feel that this is the goal, whereas according to all of the esoteric teachings, this isn't the goal.

This is the beginning of a development for the capacity to travel the paths of return in order to develop the ability and capacity to attain the goal.

An initiate, therefore, in occultism, is one who has achieved a level of evolution where that person has said in essence to himself, or naturally herself, I'm tired of being pushed around by conditions. I'm tired of getting nowhere fast. In slang terms you might say I've had it, but not negatively speaking. In other words, there is an intense emotion that that finally arises in every human being, sooner or later, an emotion that comes straight from the soul. And this emotion has to do with a desperate determination, a desperate determination to take one's own evolution in hand to do anything, anything, and everything possible in order to get out of the nightmares, the traps, the bewilderments, the ignorance, the neuroses, the psychoses, the whole host of horrors that that most of us walk in a good part of the time, and some of us just a small part of the time.

Nevertheless, on this physical plane and at this evolutionary stage of humanity, we certainly are subjected to this type of emotion quite often.

And indeed, it seems that the more we decide that it's time to take our evolution in hand, some of us find that we develop a better and better capacity to be neurotic.

There's a good reason for this, as I'm sure you will understand when we get to see these areas of growth in the hierarchy and just what an initiate actually is starting to initiate. All right, now what is it that finally brings us to this kind of desperation and why is it necessary to arrive at a state of desperation? Perhaps we should ask that question first and then we'll better be able to understand how we truly become initiates and incidentally an initiate exists on many levels just as do adepts and masters as I hope you will see now why should it be necessary for us to reach this desperation? I think this is a good question to ask. Now there are some who when they analyze this particular principle get sort of angry with God, very annoyed with God, waggle their fingers at him and you know all that goes along with figuring that God's making a mess out of things and mainly because because God didn't listen to me.

And one of my very near and dear ones has said to me, now after all, let's face it, God had a blank to work with. Whatever the universe is, this is God's engineering.

Now, it looks to me like when God engineered this universe and its methods on his drawing board. He didn't do such a good job. And of course the idea is, this very near and dear one feels that if God had taken him into consultation or had consulted with him, God wouldn't have made such a mess of things.

And I'm sure I have felt that way.

If I still do it's with tongue-in-cheek chuckling but I think we've all gone through periods perhaps where we cannot see why things go so badly we figure either either there must be something wrong with the idea of a loving benevolent God and of course this dear friend of mine I recall he often says that when he looks out at the world he figures God maybe might be a demon. In fact I have another near and dear one who has that idea very often too. And if you think this is out-and-out sacrilege, incidentally, I'd like to point out that God's a little too big to get his feelings hurt. So I don't think we need worry about that. It just indicates the basic idea that children always think their parents are dumb. I don't think I've ever known a child yet who didn't go through some stage or other where the The stupidity of the parents was almost beyond bearing.

And in adolescence, this is very marked, of course.

And there's the heaving and the sighing and the mourning at these backward moronic parents who simply haven't got what it takes to understand.

Not at all. All. I'm sure all of us have gone through some stage of this, not with both parents, at least with one. And you all remember, I think it was Mark Twain, I've mentioned this before, but it's a good thing to be reminded. I believe it was Mark Twain who said that after having very great contempt for the intelligence or a lack of it that his parents displayed or didn't display after an absence of several years he was amazed to discover how much his parents had learned in just about four very short years. So this feeling, this attitude that we can sometimes get in relation to the divine creator, that is this determination that the divine creator simply doesn't know how to create properly, let alone take care of the creation. It's rather understandable if we are also willing to accept the fact that we are children or adolescents in the total picture as children of God, because certainly we can't say we're not children of God. If God is all there is, then we have to be the creation of the Most High. And being the creation of the Most High, if we see ourselves or each other acting in ways that are most unseemly, I think instead of going in for rather, well, I hate to use the word negative but I can't think of a better one at the moment but instead of going in for negative emotional reactions when we look out at life look out at people look out at the conduct of people it would be much wiser to say the child of god the children of god are in this particular sloppy stage whether it's learning how to eat or learning how to paint or learning how to walk or learning how to speak you can't expect children or infants to behave like adults or to know everything an adult would know and of course we usually are assuming that we know in other words that we know exactly how others should be or behave well these ideas these attitudes that we are apt to hold in some way or other, of course, are held because we have not yet developed the ability to see the larger picture, the total plan.

And then interpreting things from this smaller point of view, we naturally react from a stage of ignorance, although we never recognize that this is ignorance. Remember the analogies I gave you a few moments ago.

Now, ignorance inevitably and invariably brings its own repercussions.

When we try to blame God or a devil or an anything for the problems of life, we are indicating a lack of self responsibility in our own thinking and feeling as I hope you will start to see it is pretty much like the alcoholic always blaming somebody else or something else for his problems or her problems the immature always blame somebody or something else. Now the one who is about to become an initiate stops that nonsense because we can go on and on and on blaming anybody and everybody for things that are wrong and all we'll do is come back in the same door wherein we went out will be caught in this trap of automatic response to our own immaturity. For example, I know someone who does a great deal to help serve the Lord of life, to help lift the pain of life in many more ways than one. And this particular beloved soul has an idea that because she is able to assuage the pain of life to some degree, that she should be protected from suffering the consequences of her ignorance.

And now I ask you, or be safe from suffering the consequences of her bad judgment. Now I ask you, if she were saved from the consequences of her ignorance or her bad judgment, or if anybody were, what would happen to the idea of evolution itself?

What is evolution?

Evolution is a step-by-step growth. Growth. The embryo inside of the maternal womb grows step by step. You never have a full grown embryo jump out, you know, with some kind of magic mumbling of some kind of occult ritual or other. Occult rituals exist and are powerful but they're not what we think and this is what I'm going to help you to understand through this particular series on the whole hierarchy because in as much as every single single center of life in this entire universe is of necessity then a child of God whether it be an ant or a bee and Indeed, yes a worm some people think a worm We'd be in a bad way without worms Whether it be anything that exists every living essence is a part of a total universal selfhood in a certain stage of its own self-unfoldment or self-growth.

And everything must go from step to step. Can you imagine a kitten suddenly evolving by the snap of a finger into, say, a ten-year-old cat with all the experience under its fur? I almost said under its belt.

You know, talk about terminology.

Can you imagine the little pollywog just suddenly becoming the frog or the toad without going going through its growth stages that are essential, the step-by-step evolution of its vehicle. And the vehicle, remember, is that in and through which the divine soul of us, our consciousness, has to function. And therefore anything that is occurring, no matter what it is, must be seen as an inevitable step towards the next evolutionary step in our series, which is the total growth for us and for everybody else. So if we for example have reached a point where we have enough compassion where we want to help lift the pain of others and this is a beautiful divine characteristic certainly though we may be showing maturity in that area we are showing extraordinary immaturity if we think we should be protected from our own evolution by being protected from reaping the repercussions of bad judgment or ignorance can you see this because not until we can see this are we ready to be serious initiates this is the whole point because again I'd like to point out in the western mystery occult training system. The idea is basically that we must take our own personality, our own thinking, our own feeling in hand and grow it. Nobody else can grow it for us. We We can receive help from others.

We can receive extra nutrition from the divine hierarchy, and we do, you're receiving it right now. We can receive the aeration for our little roots from the divine hierarchy, and we do, we're receiving it right now.

We can receive all kinds of inspiration, and we do receive this inspiration.

But all of the help we get is for the purpose of growing us up, growing us up in such a way that we are in control of our own selfhood. What is evolution, basically? It goes from less consciousness to more consciousness.

And having more consciousness from less consciousness, incidentally, is all tied up with the idea I was bringing out just a little while ago. The fact that we need to become desperate before we're ready to take ourselves in hand. Before we can see that the greatest greatest privilege there is in this universe is to recognize the fact that we are able to start developing a capacity to view our personalities objectively. Objectively, to view that which we have both developed already in positive terms as well as that which still needs development, developing and transmuting.

And this is the thing that we overlook so often when we attempt to understand the idea of being an initiate. Yet. The very word shows a certain sense of power, or it certainly should, and the idea of the power is the ability to apply our own power of attention and will. Look at Tarot Key number one.

You have attention there, and you have power coming from above as you utilize this attention.

But this attention is exactly the concentration of power that helps us to become more and more aware.

And in order to become more and more aware, the consciousness has to discover how important it is to be aware and how tragic it is, indeed how dangerous it is, to be unaware. For example, you drive a car and daydream, especially on our Los Angeles freeway traffic, you know what'll happen. You have to be attentive and aware. What does it take? It takes force, but not forcing somebody else. The force within ourselves, the will to hold our awareness in an area. And as we do this, we develop judgment because we see more. If we're paying attention to a thing, we are seeing the various details of this thing.

And therefore, as we pay attention, our very judgment starts to develop or evolve. If we do not pay attention, we keep running into all kinds of problems. Or if we refuse to entertain certain things that the awareness picks up. Now I know many individuals or have known who when they are tied up it could be in business, it could be a personal relationship, it could be in any sort of thing they are tied up with someone for any specific endeavor if they see certain qualities that they don't care about they figure oh well I mustn't pay attention to these things that's negative no that's negative so I will not pay any attention to that because I want to just hold love I want to hold the positive image in my mind and so I will not pay attention to the fact that this person once lied to me or that person once stole you know I'll turn my back on it maybe it'll go away actually that's the way we do and then we wonder when the roof falls down over our heads psychologically speaking or emotionally speaking we can beat our chests and say why did this happen to me what have I I don't deserve this.

I'm not so evil. After all, there are people who are really evil. I'm good. I'm honest. I don't steal. I don't lie. Well, not much, anyway.

I'm certainly not cruel. Well, not often. It's only if I want to tear somebody apart with my tongue.

You know, because they deserve it. Actually, otherwise I wouldn't.

Why should this happen to me? I who have been nothing but thoughtful towards so-and-so or many so-and-sos and then of course we get angry and we call them a so-and-so which has another meaning again and you can take the same word you get lots of meanings out of it when you feed it with the emotional flavor that has to do basically with the repercussions of our own bad judgment, our own ignorance. Now ignorance is really the one and only sin according to occultism. Now this of course is hard for many people to accept.

But ignorance is the only sin and even those who are as evil as the devil personified it is ignorance which would make them this way because the opposite of ignorance is what it is knowing and it is direct knowing and what is it that Jesus for example had what is it the masters have what is it that those who've gone before have as against ignorance direct knowing that relates to the evolution of consciousness consciousness, not guesswork, not belief, not blind faith, direct knowing. Now, knowing is the opposite of ignorance, isn't it? Very obviously. And those who do not know that the universe is one, those who do not know that all things and beings within the universe are evolving towards that one those who do not know that to injure another is to injure themselves this of course is the height and it isn't just an idea it's a knowing a direct knowing because of direct experience in this area therefore in In this blindness, in this ignorance, people do things.

They do all sorts of evil things, and we are not saying evil does not exist. Nor are we saying that we should not fight evil. Of course we must fight it. But there's a difference between fighting evil, knowing that it is ignorance, and fighting evil because we hate the essence or soul inside or behind it. Now lots of people will kid themselves and say, well really I love his soul, it's just I can't stand him. You know, similar to I love humanity I just can't stand to have them around or words to that effect or ideas that are similar now this ignorance is exactly what we have to overcome in fact we must whether we want to or not we overcome the ignorance through what through learning we learn how through growing we grow how through the through the evolutionary principles as they exist that is each experience has its repercussions now this is not retribution those who hate love the idea of retribution those who love love the idea of a soul learning and feel a tender compassion for the ones who have to go through sorrow and pain to learn.

And yet, until we achieve a certain level of direct knowing through direct experience, our consciousness does not seem capable of learning or developing judgment except through desperation in other words only when we're really down only when we've tried every way under the sun to remain separate only when we've tried everything we've been able to dream up and we can dream up lulus we're creative like our father in heaven you know and learning how to use this creative principle we sure can create some extraordinary things and out of our misinterpretations, out of our ignorance therefore, we create the problems that bring us so much sorrow and then we scream bloody murder at an unjust fate or we question the actual existence of God or of evolution or whatever it is because of the fact that sorrow or sometimes fierce tragedy strikes. Yet if you will sit back and analyze every single problem you ever had and analyze it from the occult point of view, do. That is, the point of view that consciousness creates all things exactly in harmony with its level of insight or lack of insight, understanding or lack of understanding, judgment or lack of judgment, along with the emotional factors. If you will analyze every problem you ever hand you will discover that these problems came about because something in you needed waking up needed extra knowledge extra wisdom extra deepening in order to bring your consciousness into a deeper or more intense aspiration or shall we say that stage of desperation that makes you determined that you've got to take yourself in hand. Haven't you found this to be so? Now we are all aspirants, this is true, but the thing that usually happens is that when everything is going smoothly on the outside, now let's be honest, we discover oh it takes too much energy to study the lessons, and we all do it so don't go getting guilty I'm not trying to give you a guilt complex you do a good job on yourself you know there you don't need my help at all although if you needed it I would give it lovingly believe me but can't can't you see when everything is going smoothly our consciousness stops to focus as consistently on a level where we're searching for more universal answers. In other words, the aspiration starts getting a little anesthetized with the smoothness of the physical plane. Let's be honest, analyze it, let's admit it, and let's chuckle together lovingly. You know, and here is where I think it's okay to blame God. After all, this is the way the principles work. This is the principle of consciousness, which is divine consciousness in its essence, and this is the area in which we are functioning. So, of course, within this framework of a certain degree of ignorance, etc., we have not yet developed enough of that will that will not waver.

And you know the ones who do not waver in their aspiration, no matter what's happening on the physical plane, the ones who have been so anguished so often, the ones who know that they cannot, cannot permit themselves to fall into the same hellish pits because the emotions have developed more and more intensity this is the power of the soul remember through the past experiences because the mind has groped and haunted because the tears have already been pouring like rivers into oceans of floods. Because a person has been desperate enough too many times, such a soul does not waver, even when things go smoothly on the physical plane. Such a soul cannot forget that when you let go that aspiration drive then you you start falling right back into those old habit pattern grooves of consciousness that were there previously because evolution is always pushing this is what a true initiate comes to know in time but the start of being an initiate is having been desperate enough enough times so that when you do find things smooth and fall you're not going to let yourself stay in this anesthetized state very long the intensity of the being what comes right around pushes you back the initiate then then, or becoming, we are more concerned at the moment with how to become an initiate.

The way we can become an initiate is to start recognizing, and of course many here are initiates, some very much along by the way, but we have to start recognizing that we have wept enough tears, we have screamed enough anguished heartbreaks, we have stumbled and struggled through enough dank dark tunnels of agony. When we really come to the point where we've had it and I really mean this we've had it we then do not ever forget with a certain fraction of our consciousness and something in us then that higher something will take over more and more fully so that even when we fall and we always fall everybody falls a little bit just if it were for no reason but to have some humility it would be good because the farther you go along on the path you know the harder you fall and everybody occasionally needs a good fall in order to keep the sweetness the preciousness of the kind of humility that Jesus had come learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart said Jesus of Nazareth now to feel that way he had to fall plenty they don't tell us about it in the Bible I'm sure but he knew the human soul much too well the evolution of consciousness not in itself were to be indicated that it was earned so we come then to the idea of becoming Becoming initiate is recognizing that we have to earn the privilege of being an initiate.

And how do we earn the privilege of becoming an initiate? We earn it through earnestly, assiduously, and finally at times even desperately being determined to utilize every effort within ourselves in order to find the higher goals and we know that the only way to find them we're willing to recognize this is to transmute that is grow those portions of our nature that at need transmuting and growing to recognize that whenever someone seems to have betrayed us instead of beating our chests and asking why did this happen to to me, after all, am I so evil or so bad, to say, well, now, what was there in me that failed to have the proper judgment, point number one? Or, if I had the judgment and could see that this individual was on an evolutionary level where this person had a capacity for betrayal, what was there in me that made me want to close my eyes and make believe it isn't there?

Or what was there in me that made me think that I can take a magic wand and wave it over somebody when I see this particular trait and figure that I will transmute that person. You know, this is the mistake we make. It's like the, I wonder how many women have married men in order to cure them of drinking. And how many women have married men in order to keep them from committing suicide and how many women have married men in order to feel needed then they got mad when they found they had an emotional infant on their hands and they screamed why aren't you a man they didn't want a man they don't they don't they don't want to remember see what I mean about judgment now as we are willing to do this, we start recognizing traits in others more readily, not with condemnation.

But it's just like you do not put matches in the hands of a baby. You do not put dangerous chemicals in the hands of a child you do not put your life and happiness in the keeping of those who have immaturities and it you put it in the keeping of your higher soul and you attempt to give and receive love and help but you see we're unable to recognize these traits in others most of the time only because we're unwilling to see them in ourselves and also we when we see them as I just pointed out and often we do we're unwilling to believe that they will remain there or we hope well of course I know that so-and-so has a history of doing this and that but they won't do it towards me you know this is bad judgment but the point is we then go into the most negative emotional states ourselves which is the worst thing we can do because in occultism everything that occurs is to be seen as a privilege to learn. Whatever happens that seems detrimental on the physical plane, and temporarily it may be, have we forgotten that we are eternal creatures?

We are so focused on what is happening in this moment over this week or for this month or this this year, that we think life and death and everything to hope for and not hope for depends on it. And that's why I always like to point out to all our beloveds that we should never get hot and bothered about anything until we ask ourselves the question, what difference will this make 100 years from now?

This to me broadens the consciousness and it helps give us a little chuckle. I know I've been asked by many people, how come you don't get upset when such and such happens?

And I'm usually quite surprised when I'm asked this question because I don't see anything worth getting upset about.

Yes, an annoyance it is.

Mothers will get annoyed with a child that slops its food over on its high chair and floor. But they're not going to go off into chest beatings, are they?

Because of it, you know, it's an annoyance. So it's an annoyance. You don't feed it into a major something.

And once we come to understand and see the power of our consciousness, and your consciousness is powerful, once we see this power, We come to realize that we cannot afford to indulge ourselves in this nonsense.

I know I was asked once by someone, don't you ever lose your temper?

And I thought for a moment, and I said, yes, of course I do.

But only when I decide that it is time to lose it in order to have a constructive result. And if I'm not going to get exactly what I want out of it, I'm certainly not going to lose my temper. I'm controlling my temper. It's not going to control me.

After all, am I a human being or am I an animal?

Animals haven't got control of their emotions.

But human beings do, and they gain more and more control. How?

By recognizing that this is the way you become an initiate.

The control. Now you don't have to have perfect controls to become an initiate. The point is you have to recognize, this is all I'm pointing out, to become an initiate you have to recognize that it's time to stop blaming Joe Doakes or or or Jenny Dokes, or who's this, or what's this for anything. Everyone is evolving, and each person is going to act and react in accordance to their perception and understanding.

Our job is to watch ourselves, to try to do what we can to nip our responses in the bud when those responses are going to feed into the habit patterns that bring us sorrow. You can get out of the major portions of your sorrows in a very short time. You can. You definitely can. How? By realizing that only you can do it. Nobody else. But you with the help of the divine hierarchy, of course. But the kind of help from the divine hierarchy that you should reach for is not to be saved from learning, but to be given the strength, the insight, the inspiration, the courage, so that if you fail to have enough judgment in a situation this time, and it takes you, say, 24 hours to realize what you did or didn't do, Next time it'll only take you an hour to realize it. And after a while it won't be long, you'll be realizing it while the whole situation is occurring.

Of course, that's when you've already been an initiate for quite a while. And lots of you already have been initiates in past incarnations. And you're resuming your journeys here and now. And you've been recapitulating the steps of the journey thus far. Are so if you've made more mistakes than most but are still an occult aspirant I will give you some words of comfort and it is mainly this that in each incarnation and you most of you are familiar with this principle. In each incarnation, after all, we have to grow our bodies from that first cell until the infant is formed enough to take up life separate from the mother's womb. And what is it that infant is doing? That's all. It is recapitulating the physical evolution of life, isn't that correct? Because we go go through the whole physical evolution every time. Well, we all go through the psychological evolution of humanity with every incarnation, plus, plus the personal evolution we've attained up to this point.

That's why all babies are selfish.

They're supposed to be. But if they remain selfish, case of arrested development. See? All children have certain characteristics. They're supposed to, but if they keep this childishness when they're supposed to be grown up, then they're a case of arrested development. All adolescents, after all, have certain characteristics also. But if they remain adolescent, like for example, being in a state of eternal rebellion. Now that's being arrested at the stage of adolescence. And of course when you're arrested at a certain stage, what it really implies is that the personal evolution hasn't gone beyond that point of arrestment. That might give you a way to look into a few facets of consciousness, if you want to meditate on that idea. Now with With ourselves as occult aspirants, we would naturally have more quickly recapitulated the psychological evolution of humanity within ourselves plus our personal evolution. Why?

Because having made up our mind that we must grow ourselves into unity with God, that we must attain to our spiritual maturity, so that we can walk in this knowledge of eternal selfhood and all the powers that go with it. Having done that, remember, what we do is condense experiences.

And if you wonder why people who are not occult aspirants seem to have such an easy life, well, is it?

Is it really so easy? We judge from the outside. Side. The point is when we decide to evolve beyond a certain area, as I mentioned, there is this desperation has to take place and your soul chose. It chose to recapitulate your evolution in a shorter length of time than would have been done otherwise because because it knows that if it doesn't do it now, it'll have to do it later.

And it's easier to do it this way now than it would later. And so it is actually choice.

I would say that everyone here certainly is already an initiate in a sense, some to quite an extreme degree, some in the beginnings. However, we all reach a point where we need the extra help. We're not alone. This is the thing I want to bring out to you. You are not alone. The moment you decide that you don't want to continuously keep falling back into this zombie-like condition, that you don't want the minute things go easier on the physical plane that you don't want to find yourself more interested in TV and oh the host of little trifling time wasters that so many of us go in for that we don't want to waste our time it isn't that there's anything wrong with recreation in fact the soul needs it I'm talking about where we go in for using most of our time in this manner when we see that we just simply are not going to want to be wasting our time this more this much anymore what occurs at that point is that a spark lights up and it brings contact from the inner teacher in and through the hierarchy and this particular contact this spark guides us now our guide the guidance is taking place incidentally only when we are are keeping that attention charged.

When we let ourselves slip down, it's pretty much like we're deliberately plugging ourselves out from the powerhouse that's gonna help us get there.

And even though you may have a tendency to slip back, I do want to comfort you on this point also.

You will never slip back permanently because consciousness, the Lord of life, simply won't let it be that way. So be of good cheer I think you've all been desperate enough already I think that you're ready to keep remembering much sooner I think that right here we're all ready to be willing to work at transmuting ourselves and helping each other and attaining to the infinite beauties that that do exist and are here for us.

And in my next talk on this series, I'm going to explain to you exactly how quickly this can occur and why it can occur so rapidly when we manage to keep ourselves tuned in through the regular beat of our studies and our contacts together in and through the hierarchy.

Meanwhile, remember, forgive those you think betrayed you Forgive God if you think God has done a bad job.

Forgive yourself if you think you've done a bad job within yourselves.

See yourselves as beloved children of the Most High and make up your minds to be guided into this realization every step of the way as initiates of the Western Occult School which you are.

Thank you.
