My talk for this morning is the Divine Lovers in Tarot.

And here we have Tarot Key Number 6, the Lovers.

And we certainly have the figure that symbolizes an aspect of divinity above the Lovers. But we have much else now remember the tarot keys as such are symbolic representations speaking directly to your subconsciousness representations of your powers of consciousness they speak a language which whether you have learned it consciously or not is completely known and understood by subconsciousness and for this very reason the influence of these tarot keys is so fantastic it as we should certainly understand by now it stirs, it stimulates portions of consciousness in such a way that we find ourselves becoming more and more awake, more and more aware, we find ourselves having more and more livingness. And remember the secret doctrine of Israel the Qabalah has to do with attaining our within our evolution the heights of the tree of life and livingness life we are speaking even when we speak about the tarot keys we are always speaking about the cabalistic doctrine and each tarot key as we know in our particular school of training represents a group of ideas So that we have, you might say, untold numbers of ideas given to our inner self in the flash of one picture.

You know, it's like being able to be aware of larger portions of experience in an all-at-onceness. It is actually a preparation for the ability to have what has often been called fourth dimensional awareness, where you see all sides, all around, and the inside all at once. This is just an analogy, but it gives an idea. The tarot keys represent symbolic images, which are the natural language of the subconscious portion of our being. And when we actually work with the meanings in order to make them conscious and we're taught to do this in the lessons that you receive we become more and more adept at utilizing the very forces of our own consciousness which previously have been used by us out of ignorance in such a way that we've brought ourselves tears anguish sorrow disappointment and all the hosts of hell that go with these misuses now misuse remember has to do with ignorance and therefore as we We cure our ignorance with study, with aspiration, with practice.

We more and more develop the ability and the capacity to reflect that portion of ourselves which is the aspect of deity that we might call love. Now the lovers here in tarot of course means very much more than it appears on the surface for one thing remember that the each of the symbols even the number has a special meaning and the meanings when we correlate them together bring us to more of an ability and capacity to comprehend the basic ideas that are involved in developing the powers of that particular group of symbols or keys the powers that is of our own consciousness now with this Tarot key we have the ancient Hebrew letter Zion assigned now each of these letters has another group of meanings remember that goes with the symbols of the key itself now one of the primary meanings of this hebrew letter zion is sword or weapon now that doesn't sound much like love does it and yet there must be a correlation here when we learn how to recognize it and use it well it becomes easier to recognize and use when we are also told that this Hebrew letter is assigned to the kind of consciousness that is called the disposing intelligence, or, call it another thing, call it the discriminating intelligence.

Now, what does it mean to discriminate? To discriminate means to be able to tell one thing from another.

We discriminate between light and dark. That's quite easy too. There's some things we don't seem to have problems with. How well do we discriminate between that in us which is our self-conscious being and that in us which is our subconscious being? There is something that appears quite subtle. How well do we discriminate the different characteristics in various people? In other words, how well are we able to judge their potentials or possibilities or possible responses to situations? Now, this is a discriminative faculty.

Therefore, the discriminating intelligence or the disposing intelligence obviously uses, what, the ability to show, we say, cut apart like a sword, to see this in relation to that.

Comparing, evaluating one thing to another. So we have the pair of opposites involved and of course it's in and through the pair of opposites that we have to work in order to understand what unity is let's and without understanding unity how are we going to know love now then we have and here comes the trick and where we try to comprehend hand or understand this we have a pair of opposites in which we certainly live and think and move and experience at all times and that has to do with the pair of opposites that we will now call love and hate now according to Qabalah and this is not easy for some people to understand according to Qabalah love Love and hate are the two polarities of one thing.

And we can ask, how can this be?

Well, it can be, if we'll again think of the negative use of the disposing intelligence. Now, the negative use of it.

Because in the negative use of the disposing intelligence, which we all go in for, some of us more than others, the negative use has to do with being taken in by the experience of the pair of opposites in such a way that our thinking and feeling maintains itself in separateness in other words we take that which which is a polarity and we cut it apart with our consciousness in such a way that we have what we call this and that. Now this is necessary, incidentally, for evolution.

This tarot key shows, you see behind the female figure, the serpent in back of the female figure. Doesn't that remind us of the story in Genesis?

Who was it that said to Eve, Oh come, now don't pay attention to the Lord, uh god's just trying to keep you from having a lot of knowledge and wisdom you know prohibiting you from eating of this tree of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil remember you notice the pair of opposites good and evil you know that this is very good to eat go on well you go ahead and try it and eve figured if it's good for knowledge gee I better the serpent says it's that good I will and she ate by golly she realized she does have an awareness a knowledge but she didn't have before so she offered it to Adam if you recall never since then all have women been in trouble with men it would appear and most especially because of the way it's been missing this story has been misinterpreted because you see eve basically here represents subconsciousness eve represents subconsciousness and adam very obviously here represents exactly what it says adam now what what is Adam? Remember, in Qabalah, we are taught very specifically and consistently and continuously that Adam means generic humanity. That is the literal meaning of Adam, generic humanity.

And so behind the male figure, what do we see? We see a tree with 12 flames, and each flame is shaped in such a way that you have a number three now the twelve flames on this tree represent the twelve signs of the zodiac and the three represents the three decanates for each sign of the zodiac which in totality gives you every kind of personality that exists that has ever existed that exists or will exist in other words the and you take and interact this is what then it is representing generic humanity so that Adam is humanity or people all kinds of people Aries people and Taurus people and scorpion people and all kinds of people and Eve is representing subconsciousness now remember when God created Adam so to speak we want to call it creation remember it says in Genesis male and female created they then so So that right there, we are being shown that Adam means generic humanity, so that Adam really means male and female.

On the other hand, remember, Adam was living alone, as seen.

And here, God created Adam, or generic humanity, as male and female. And then God says, it's not good for man to be alone. What does this mean? Basically all right here in this tarot key we're being given the messages the meaning symbolically whether the conscious mind knows it consciously yet or not but I'm going to try to help you to see a very important aspect of this because basically you see the one the only blessed be he god the lord of the universe the divine that which we chant as a hay that is the one a hay means unity the one now super consciousness as such that's how we refer the super consciousness here is being symbolized by the archangel raphael amongst Now, superconsciousness cannot be aware of anything except I am on that level. In that level of our own consciousness, which we call superconsciousness, you cannot be be aware of this or that because the minute you are there that is your separation you or me that's separation light or dark that's separation love or hate that's separation in super consciousness there is no awareness of any of these things because super consciousness is I am that I am beginningless endless never a time I was not there's even no knowledge of time because past and future are the two opposites you have a pair of opposites of something that we call time there again I'm trying to show you something which cannot be seen intellectually but we were attempting to move in together with our consciousness so that in this super conscious level your pair of opposites do not exist and because they do not exist the one the only blessed be he dwells in solitary beingness so that to begin with Adam before he could be self-conscious could was and could be nothing else except that which is the the one reality, and that is I am that I am.

Now that is being solitary in the law. It is a symbolic idea, because there is none else to be aware of, nor naught else, nor the knowledge that there's something or a level of awareness that could or couldn't be any different way. It is a step in a total knowingness. And what is this next step that has to come beyond the ability to experience that level which we will call super consciousness? It has to be the ability to see and to share in the recognition that in order to express selfhood, you have to have awareness of self-consciousness you cannot be aware of self-consciousness unless you project yourself into something that we will call the pair of opposites and that is something that we call self and not self now how do we do that easily when we think that anything out there or that seems to be out there is not self we have instantly done this and this is actually a great power it is what we call the discriminating power but just like we are deluded and completely deluded by the real meaning of all kinds of experiences we are deluded into thinking thinking that what we experience out there is as separate as it seems.

In the same manner, we have become deluded in terms of what true awareness of differentiation really indicates and what discrimination really is. And therefore we are pretty much like those who at one time were absolutely certain that it is the sun in the heavens that rises and sets rather than the planet revolving and making it appear that way you know if you have a million or trillion dew drops and the sun is up in the heavens now every single dew drop is going to be glistening with that same sun reflecting that sun now suppose each dew drop is a self-conscious awareness each dew drop then will look at another dew drop look at its light and think its light is different from your light is different from my my light and that light, you know, each of you have a light all your own. And each dewdrop will be utterly unaware of the fact that it is that one sun that is really the light and that each dewdrop is reflecting the one, the only.

So what will the dewdrops do? Well if they can move and if they can think and if they can image, they're going to act in ways that are full of separatism and that's exactly what we do incidentally us dewdrops of God or shall we say us substances of the one the only the whole but we want to go a little farther with this thought and idea so so that we can at least reach for some vast experience and come to really at least intuitively get a greater recognition of the meaning, true meaning of what love is. And then, of course, then we'll know what love isn't also, won't we? Now then, the next step, the lovers, has to do with the fullness of intuition because the height of true discrimination is really intuition carried to its larger area. And what is it? It is the ability to see reality by discerning differences, yet at the same time be acting in accordance with the reality of unity.

In other words it is being able to see for example that the serpent and this tarot key as you face it is helping you to see it whether you know it consciously or not it is doing it right now is being able to see that this serpent of temptation that is doing what it is speaking speaking basically to subconsciousness and it is saying to subconsciousness in essence get out there and discover things get experience get experience and then you will be like the gods therefore this serpent of temptation isn't exactly what it seems to be and in qabalah When you are taught how to utilize its gematria system, we discover that temptation and Messiah are the same number.

And therefore, only when we have passed through the various temptations do we develop our Messiahhood or the ability to be our own saviors through the higher self. And so remember in the Bible, the Spirit led Jesus to the mountaintop to be tempted of the devil. Remember that? And you'll say, the Spirit? God wouldn't tempt. But what else is there if there's only one? Blessed be he. How are we going to say that god is not the tempter you know now this is really a very profound depth of realization that we have to have we have to come to see that every pair of opposites has a unifying quality on the super conscious level and it is something other on the super conscious level than it appears to us on the self-conscious level which means we have to use our self-conscious level in ways other than we've done before as long as we misinterpret from self-conscious levels what we're experiencing or seeing then we're going to have more and more problems and it is through this Tarot key the lovers that we truly learn how because we learn to recognize the fact that in as much as each and every one of us are aspects of God reflecting that one divine son to the degree that we are misinterpreting who and what we are and acting feeling in other words imaging in those terms to that degree are we the authors of our own pain and agony and anguish now the thing I want you to remember is when we say our own we're not talking about something outside of god in the book of tokens one of the meditations says thy pain is my pain thy tears course down my cheeks You see, if we are in the delusion of separateness, we think I am suffering something as something separate, or I am being mistreated or hurt as something separate.

But the truth of the matter is those of us who know who what we are not as a theory we know when you know it it's because you are you experience it we know we do not think and it is not a theory I I know that thy tears course down my cheeks. I know it because I experience it, because I am not separate from you.

What has that got to do with the divine lovers in tarot, but everything?

And as you've heard me say so often, as the secret doctrine tells us continuously, there is one and one alone. There is no such thing as a secret thought. There's no such thing as a secret feeling. There's no such thing as a separate emotion. There's no such thing as real separateness. We are deluded and we are misinterpreting what occurs. When you look out at the world, you are looking at your images. Think of it. Because everything you see in the world, whether it's the sky or the tree, whether it is another person, whether it's your husband, your wife, whether it's a little creature, there you have only one way to see. Like the emperor looking at those waters there's only one way to see you have to look into your subconsciousness and you do it automatically and that's why the male figure here self-consciousness is looking at a female figure which is subconsciousness the our experience of everything is via subconsciousness there is no other way remember divine lover that you are you can have this lovingness and this outpouring of glory, which is the complete healing of your soul.

You can have it, and you're going to start having it from now on to a fantastically greater degree than ever before. All you have to do is stand at the door of your consciousness, my love, and sit the heart of your love, of receiving only what you are willing to give.
