The title of our talk for this morning is Creativity, Secret of Divine Love.

And the Tarot key is, as you see, Tarot key number three, the Empress, assigned to the Hebrew letter Dala, which means door, amongst many of its other meanings. that is the specific.

Along with the meaning of door that is involved with the letter here, we also have the pair of opposites assigned to this particular key, the pair of opposites being wisdom and folly.

And I'd like you to note on the Qabalistic Tree of Life that the path of Dalit, the Empress, connects wisdom, the divine father aspect within sphere of activity of the tree of life to understanding the divine mother aspect on the tree of life with its activity. So that we have here in the Empress and its pair of opposites called wisdom and folly we have here that which is the combining that which is the union between yod-hay-vah-hay the father and Elohim the mother and indeed in Genesis you will recall it is yod-hay-vah-hay Elohim that that said, let us make man in our image. And we have here in the Empress the symbolic representation of what is involved in imaging, what is involved in imaging or in duplicating of the likeness.

We have then creativity, true creativity. And of course what I want us to see is that it is the secret of divine love, if we have not yet seen it. And if we have, I want us to experience it. And if we've already experienced it, I want us to experience it more deeply. So we all have something to receive if we can attune ourselves together more intimately into the principles of this key. Now, when Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh Elohim said, let us make man, which remember he said, let us make man, which is let us make Adam or generic humanity in our image.

We have here the declaration of a principle started right in Genesis, which was not true once upon a time nor will it just become true someday it is a complete statement of the way creativity takes place now this is a statement of the way creativity takes place not just once when the world got started or the firmament was separated from the firmament nor something we can hope for or look forward to.

We have here one of the most profound secret of secrets given very completely and openly, if we only knew how to comprehend it in its fullness.

Because as we know by now, creativity, all creativity takes place via consciousness.

Consciousness is certainly known to be the causative factor for anything and everything. And certainly by now we all know, we all should be understanding, realizing that everything that we call physical, everything we think of as being material, everything that we experience as being solid is still exactly what we've just been talking about the not only just the result of this process of creativity taking place via consciousness but actually is one of the ways in in which consciousness presents to itself the image and likeness of its creative processes, or self-duplications.

But I'm just trying to point out to you that when in Qabalah we say to you, everything that exists including that which we experience as physical material solid everything that exists is really consciousness and the result of consciousness furthermore remember yo hey bah hey Elohim which is father mother God said let us make man in our image so we can also go on to say that everything we see and experience is a self duplication or replication so when we come then to think of ourselves and man let us make man we have an indication that whatever it is we are experience or whatever portion or whatever appears limited certainly whatever it is we experience is physical it apparently is self-duplication since our image and likeness has to do with exactly that self-duplication we know that out of the single cell of a female and the single cell of a male let them get together like here on the tree of life you notice via the path of the empress dollop which means the door we have the cosmic father wisdom and the cosmic mother understanding getting together there they are the sign of union and indeed if you'll notice the path coming down the middle from the crown to beauty the high priestess that's the one we took up the last sunday my sunday which was the second sunday of the month you notice that was was the previous tarot key number two which is assigned to subconsciousness and more so to the full principle of subconsciousness and i would like to remind you that that also is called the path of unity unity so that the empress or the door or creativity crosses the path of unity again telling us kabbalistically and remember only when we know it kabbalistically do we know it at all since the Bible is written by the trained adepts prophets masters of Qabalah we can see then that unity has to do with creativity furthermore it's the unity of the masculine feminine principles or aspects that self duplicates itself so when you have the masculine and the feminine principles or aspects that self duplicates itself so when you have the masculine and the feminine principle coming together in unity what you have then is the receiving into subconsciousness which which is symbolized by the high priestess through its unity.

But then what happens? That's when the empress comes into action because the empress is the development of that seed. And how does it develop?

Via self-duplication and multiplication because from these two cells, we do have the representation of self duplication so even here on the entire tree of life we're being told that the one the only the Lord of the universe the indivisible the one divine will the one creator with a capital C is as that That which we think of as being the kingdom, Malkuth, the physical universe, but in a different way.

And what is it that is different? It is the way we experience the reality. All right, now let's look at some more of these symbols here on the Empress, so that we together can understand its use and see better what is meant by gift of divine love because we want to be able to see our creativity as the gift of divine love which it is so here with the empress we have this crown the crown of 12 stars that's being worn remember that stands stands for the 12 signs of the zodiac the 12 signs of the zodiac are one of the things that are involved here in this imaging and it has to do with the fact we're being told that our image making powers are absolutely limitless the entire universe is at our command basically when we image properly but remember we have to image as god images or learn how to image you You know, in the image and likeness of God, we were made, and we're learning how to image so that God can have the perfect creative experiences in and through us, or those specialized aspects of us.

So here we have the entire universe, really, as our crown. And you notice the heart. Here we have the indication of love, and incidentally, even the dove is a symbol of love, because although the dove literally in one sense means peace and the Holy Spirit the dove is also the bird of Venus and Venus in itself is symbol for love and Venus is assigned to this Tarot key so we have in this heart which is of the metal brass we have here another secret of positive creativity in order to be able to recognize and experience the divine love that being behind it and what is involved basically well in essence when we train ourselves to see these powers to image to be aware as being the gifts of God and actually being developed for God this is the only way we really develop an ability to be with the divine will what what we do is recognize the fact then that the one of the first and most important things we have to do is to improve our love nature because you see we cannot create and experience environment that is full of loving fulfillment unless we have a love nature that is able to make proper images in harmony with divine love how could we now then with lovingness nothing nothing at all that we work on for creating is going to have any value it's going to all turn to dust and ashes unless it is based on love on love if you You have very deep and very intense desires for material things.

By all means, concentrate on it and get it and discover how the moths and rust corrupt it and suffer the consequences and do it fast. I want you to please go and don't play with it. Go ahead and get it over with. Then you'll come back and really be ready to put your attention on what matters continuously, consistently, the sort of thing that cannot be corrupted. And the dominion, the dominion of that staff is a very important thing to understand. Also, please note the bench she sits on is very fancy.

It's, you know, the high priestess sits on a very plain cube, but the empress sits on a bench that has curlicues and tassels and you know all sorts of decorations what which in itself is an indication that creative imagination yours and mine we are the way the lord of the universe puts extra decoration into life's experience and that's part of our function in fact it's part of our responsibility to life now the water is there you notice the water is coming down those are the same waters that started from the high priestesses robe in other words from subconsciousness which has been impregnated by the attention of self-consciousness the magician comes you see this pool and the ripples and again we're and that that's showing us the moon and the powers of subconsciousness and you notice that the empress has the moon at her feet now there there are two important meanings here number one subconsciousness is the foundation for everything we create for the whole door of life well this by now we certainly must know but there's another reason for it being at the feet it's because she has subconsciousness under control you are being shown creativity in its positive sense if you were shown pictures of creativity in its negative sense you couldn't bear it you would up and besides that would be a very terrible suggestion in tarot every principle of your consciousness is being shown you in its positive sense so that you can grab every tarot key as you need to once you've been studying it and learn how to help you keep yourself from being pulled into warped imaging to help you keep yourself from being pulled into hate imaging to help you keep yourself from being pulled into wastefulness so everything must be placed in its proper areas in our consciousness and utilize the gift of life is the gift of attention the power of consciousness to pay attention and what we pay attention to is what we plant in subconsciousness so my darlings if you want to really know divine love and incidentally you have the love of the divine but if you don't know it what good is it to you at the moment you see you're not utilizing it if you want to consciously really know the divine love and consciously see the miracle of this guidance that you really have whether you know it or not what must be done is to utilize the magic of this but this key is showing you it is giving you this magic and that means we have to make a pact with ourselves a dedication if you will with ourselves with the deepest part of ourselves to watch our imaging you know that is the point of control no no matter what your problems are no matter what your problems have been no matter how many hells you are in or hells you have been in it is not necessary to stay in any one of them not at all it is at the point of imaging that we start making the changes we are children learning how to manifest beauty it is true there are things come from the mass consciousness that are part of our lot as part of the total group which become a part of our lives at times but that doesn't have to when we understand these principles that That doesn't pull us down, because I'll tell you, my loves, and the truth of the matter is, the attainment of the grade that actually involves where the path of this Empress crosses has to do with attaining the kind of consciousness where what the world calls sacrifice, the adept and the master call their good pleasure.

the point is imagination is the gift of divine love because with your ability to image you can bring about the most complete fulfillment but knowing how to image is what really involves the most complete wisdom and that means knowing how to interpret what's here how to reason with What I want you to try to hold in your heart more than anything is this. Dear God, I thank you. I'm a winner. Your love for me is manifest. I have this fantastic, extraordinary, miraculous ability and capacity to image. I dedicate myself to keep my imaging in harmony with love and lovingness and to search out the knowledge and the wisdom that is your gift of life to me in everything I see around me. to look for and experience the beauty, to look at the beauty of the tree when I'm walking on the street instead of growling at the ugliness of the post, to look at the beauty of a person's eyes or nose instead of what I might think is the ugliness of their mouth or words, to look at the beauty of the sky and the rain and to say, this is God's tender washings, to say not this is a gray day, this is a silver day.

Think on these things.

Divine love is creativity.
