Now for this talk I'd like to have the Tree of Life facing you. So if our beloved Dan...

Isn't he handsome?

Thank you dear.

I shocked him terribly, our beloved Frater Dan, when the first time he appeared here, when I looked at him and I said, you're beautiful and i kissed him he has venus and capricorn but it didn't chase him away entirely showing his spiritual orientation i think after he got home and his higher self meditated on it he decided that that was the spirit he liked and anyway he came back for more and now you see what we've got him doing all sorts of things and so he's being helpful to bota TA, and we're having the joy of looking at that lovely handsome face, which I think God did a very excellent job on, don't you? At any rate, let's go on to Qabalah in terms of our talk, the blueprint towards adeptship. Now here, we see the tree of life.

And the tree of life, remember, is the diagram, diagram or the diagrammatical representation or the glyph of the actual esoteric teaching and training system of esoteric mystery, that which you have heard of in terms of esoteric mysteries or the mystery initiations. Here you see a diagram that really represents what has has been referred to through the ages, though few people have known about it. Remember, we have various individuals who have certain psychic faculties. And psychic faculties are prone to all kinds of illusions, delusions, and snares, since psychic faculties really come from subconscious levels.

And though you have marvelous and extraordinary experiences sometimes in and through a psychic faculty, on the whole, you also have all kinds of tests, delusions, delusions and snares in and through subconscious faculty, which incidentally could also be called the astral world, the psychic world, as well as the subconscious field of the consciousness of all living beings. And that is why we have these mixtures that relate to astral experience or astral life. And of course, as we pointed out, there are many individuals who, having a quite psychic type of vehicle, and having read or heard about various mystery schools, and you have many novels have been written on it, that we have had grow up a sort of group of ideas, the sort of fairy tale type of idea. And incidentally, I'm not against fairy tales. I read every one they had in the library when I was a child. Then I got very annoyed with society because that's all there was.

They forced me to go on to classics. I preferred staying with the fairy tales at that age. But none were left. I'm not against fairy tales at all. We need them at a certain age. And if we need them at a certain physical age, we also need them at a certain spiritual age. Because remember, some people can walk around in grown-up bodies but still have the child's subconscious, psychological, spiritual level, because that child hasn't grown up yet.

That is the soul, even though the particular incarnation has reached a body that looks adult. This indeed is the reason for the nonsense that we have in the world. We expect adult behavior from people who carry adult bodies, but we should expect adult behavior only from those who have adult spiritual psychic vehicles.

And we're all in different stages or different steps on the ladder of our particular evolution.

This is why it is unwise to get too violently upset about the state of the world, though we have to be upset enough to care, and weep with sorrow.

But we have to realize that children are going to be children, and children are known to be savage, even though they're savage in a state of innocence. And what we forget is that the innocence is part of what causes the savagery. They don't understand yet. They can't experience themselves as one with someone else and therefore be able to project, how would I feel in that person's place? The golden rule can come into real expression only as the individual has attained a spiritual level where automatically that person will say, how would I feel in that person's place?

Even when it comes to boring the other person, incidentally, people think of it only as injuring, for example, you know, killing, stealing.

When we attain a certain spiritual level, we'll even try to be very careful about boring another person, because that is, I think, one of the unhappy expressions that we are subjected to from people who have such an immaturity that they must get attention, must be exhibitionists, must sort of speak up and bring the attention to oneself, just like the child does. You know how how the child calls, look at me, look at me, look at me, see what I'm doing, is it prances on one foot? Well, we have the same conduct from people in grown-up bodies, of course, who are screaming, look at me, you know, by speaking up and forcing attention on themselves.

And this also is part of the immaturity. In fact, it's an indication that some portion of that person, not all, because we're unevenly developed often, we can have one part very very mature, and in other parts still an empty hole in the being that needs filling in through experience and the repercussions of the nonsense.

Well, at any rate, the thing that we want to consider very specifically this morning in terms of the Qabalistic pattern towards adeptship has to do with the idea of what initiation really is or is not and to try to understand the difference between that which we call adeptship and that which we call psychic experience and remember what we said psychic experience is a mixture of of memory, and remember memory always involves nonsense for this reason. We remember yesterday in terms of how we interpreted it, so that the things we remember are not exactly as they really occurred at all, because, again, I repeat, we remember things in terms of the way we interpreted it at that level of our growth, so that, for example, we can say remember a parent in terms of hatred, and this is far more common than most people realize.

We can remember a parent in terms of hatred because we interpreted a parent's conduct in terms of rejection, or not appreciating us enough, or not loving us enough. And so we could look back with memory on certain experiences as a child, and just moan and groan about what terrible conditioning we had, whereas it might not have been exactly that way at all. On the other hand, we can look back at a parent and say what a saint this parent was, and this parent might have been something exactly the opposite that uses three initials. And you know what I mean, and I mean it very literally. The conditioning that some people may have had, you know, that mama and papa are right, right or wrong, and this looking up to them because of the dependence, we can carry with us then certain ideas or patterns or emotional responses that were trained into us.

And we can look upon that pattern then as the glorious heritage and upon that parent as having given us this great gift, whereas the great gift might have been the glorious heritage of hating our fellow man because of difference of color or religion. Now what kind of glorious heritage would that be? You know, or the admonition, you must follow the spiritual truth as taught to you, the spiritual truth being hate anyone who isn't in the real teaching.

You know, anyone who doesn't know literally that the Son of God was a man born 2,000 years ago, for example, and if you don't believe the literal truth, well, you're damned. Instead of having what some parents might teach their children, the Son of God is you, the Son of God is me, the Son of God is generic humanity. And once there was a man born by the name of Jesus at Nazareth who experienced this very profoundly, very profoundly indeed, and and he knew he was the son of God and the son of man. And he's a wonderful example for us to follow. And many others have followed in his footsteps, now it's our turn, to understand and grow up as much as he grew up spiritually in this plane, on this planet. You see the difference of the heritage. But we remember, in terms of our own personal memories, things that aren't so.

And so we're filled with patterns.

of nonsense in subconsciousness. And we react with emotional reactions in subconsciousness, which are really blinders, like they put on our poor little horses, although this isn't happening anymore. They used to do it when horses used to draw carriages, so that the horses couldn't see each side, because if it would see the motion from side to side, horses have a wider range of physical vision, you know, than human beings do. And so because the horses would see all of these various activities going on from side to side, and horses would get nervous and upset and therefore become dangerous, they put blinders on them. So the horses couldn't see what's going on along the side or periphery vision. They'd have to look just straight ahead, which made it a little safer. safer. Now, we've got to remember that our memory of yesterday had the same blinders put on it by our teachers and our parents. And I don't care how nice they were. It has nothing to do with nice. They're still growing, unevolved beings with their conditioning to contend with. And therefore, we've all been trained through our culture and our schools and our books in thinking and feeling in certain ways. And this thinking and feeling, these these patterns that we've received, whether we look back in our memory and say, oh, what a sad karma I had to have such a horrible one parent or both parents, or what a wonderful karma I had to have such a wonderful one parent or both parents. Whether we think they were wonderful or horrible, they all gave us patterns that were in terms of their own misinterpretations of life, because no physical parent gives you the correct interpretation of life. You You get it only when you achieve a certain level on this Qabalistic path of initiation.

And only then can you see with eyes that have no blinders or weren't conditioned to seeing with blinders. And then even that takes a certain length of time. So the idea of initiation, as I said, we have read all sorts of fairy tales, and I go for them, because many a person has become an aspirant because of being enthralled with certain novels on occultism. And I'm all for it, just like every child needs fairy tales, and I'm all for it. In fact, I still like fairy tales, and if I have to evolve more to outgrow them, well, then God's going to have to work on me.

But I'm not talking against fairy tales. What I'm saying is we've got to know what is and is not a fairy tale, finally, even though we may still enjoy some of them. But we do have to understand what our conditioning has been, and realize that anything that we have had such positive ideas about aren't necessarily so at all.

Not at all. In fact, usually they are not at all that. And so we have to be reaching with our consciousness and our heart towards attaining the higher grades of awareness. Now, this is really initiation, you know, in actuality, and this really refers to the graduated grades of adeptship or adepthood. Now, in Qabalah, adept has other meanings than what most of you who have read novels have come to understand as adept.

And initiate has meanings other than what you have come to understand as initiate through various novels. So let's get our terminology correct, because Qabalah is the originator of the terms which in English translations become known as initiates and adepts. And all other developments are from this, but going off on their own fantasies, their own subconscious ideas that have never really been verified, but which sound so much more entrancing because we haven't realized how entrancing it is to face reality that it's far more miraculous than anything any novel is going to give us about adeptship or adepthood or initiation. Far more entrancing and miraculous. And this is a thing, of course, that we try to work on helping you to see and develop so that you'll walk in miracle continuously continuously, instead of having to escape into what somebody else says about it. Now then, to return to the original initiation and adeptship translation meanings, because as I've pointed out, these terms came from the Western school of occult training, which it is my responsibility and privilege to represent for this planet today.

The definite idea of initiation comes from what? Initiation is to initiate, that is to begin. Isn't that right? So why do we have to become so entranced with the idea that somebody is an initiate? You're all initiates who sit before me, or you wouldn't be interested in occultism. You began the path of return, every one of you.

or your hearts wouldn't be yearning towards a larger kind of awareness or consciousness and you began it before this incarnation or you wouldn't be guided to the high school college level of occult training which we represent and it isn't easy college isn't easy you have to pass exams you know but you apparently have the ability or you wouldn't be guided to that particular level of your next training. So to be an initiate really means to have begun, it's the beginning, the initiation, to have already consciously and deliberately at some point have started on transmuting your subconscious level or your personality being so that it can become the instrument in and through which the higher knowing is understood and experienced therefore no matter what your life is like you may be going through hell at the moment or you may be going through heaven in this particular cycle you are an initiate because you your heart has reached up and said i want to attain to the highest level i'm capable of every one of you have said that to yourselves in your heart who sit here you wouldn't be here Your heart has lifted itself up and said, I want to understand the meaning of life and of consciousness, of evolution, and I want to attain my highest capacity in it.

Every one of you have said at least that, and some perhaps even more. But I don't know what more there is, because that is quite a bit to say, even if you may have said it wordlessly, that is, with the reaching and yearning of your heart, and not have even managed to put it into verbalized terms for your intellect.

You still have each done this.

And as I said, you did it before this incarnation, or you wouldn't be on this level of training which we represent, or guided to hear about it, to go on with wherever you were before. Because keep this in mind, whatever evolutionary level we have achieved in previous incarnations, When we are reborn, first of all, in the mother's womb, we recapitulate nature's knowledge, you know, from the single cell to the human body. And so we recapitulate our physical evolution, which each and every one of us have gone through to be able to build a physical body. Then from the time we're born, we keep recapitulating nature's knowledge because a baby born is not a fully completed human adult, as you know. I mean it is still an unfinished product physically speaking and a very much so it takes quite a few years For instance a dog and account take only a one to two years to attain their physical maturity from birth a Human adult takes longest period that exists on this planet Why because we are the most highly evolved creatures and we recapitulate therefore longer periods this is why in case you ever wondered or thought to think about this I'm explaining to you that the more highly evolved we are the longer we recapitulate the previous evolutionary cycle or manvantara as our eastern brethren would call it and then when we reach the complete recapitulation because each recapitulation brings it back up to memory we quickly go through our past attainments and then we continue on with the next requirement or stage for our evolution or growth.

Therefore, those who have attained fantastic spiritual awarenesses in the past will start right off as small children, to have perceptions that are very unusual for small children. This is rare, although it's happening a little more often today. This is very rare.

The rest of us, and those of us who have attained very high levels, we will go through our childhood recapitulating, usually, the psychological evolution of the race.

Every one of us have to do that, no matter how highly evolved we are or how lowly evolved we are. And that is why the child is usually savage and barbarian, unless it is such an extraordinary old soul that the barbarian part just takes place in the first few months, where all it's thinking of is its intake, take, and nothing else. No one escapes the recapitulation. It's just how long does it take. And each recapitulation for certain stages has to do with our own evolutionary level, individually, how long it takes with some people. That's why some adolescents drive you out of your mind with the way they behave. And others don't even remotely attain enough evolution to drive you out of their mind. they remain stuck in a mass mind pattern but they never free themselves from the parental patterns incidentally at all which they must no matter how good a parent we've been for the freedom of our own evolution and then there are others who don't have to go through either of these but just see and understand an adolescent so completely that there's very little of the pairs of opposites that are acting out so here you have at least some understanding of why you have such differences and certain intense emotional responses however every one of us come to a point where we have reached in our recapitulation that which is our own individual evolution because after we recapitulate the race evolution then we start in on a recapitulation of our own personal individualized evolution that which has made us the eternal son and or daughter of God and the son and or daughter of man too which is interchangeable really so we reach a point then in our every particular incarnation or having recapitulated the race we start in with our own and that's when of course having recapitulated our personal incarnation which means we go through this problem that problem, this sorrow, that sorrow, this misinterpretation or this correct interpretation, we then come to a point, finally, where we're ready to go on to the next stage after recapitulation, just as takes place in the womb of a mother or of a creature for bringing about the birth of a child.

The same thing is occurring in psychological recapitulation and growth, incidentally. The same principle without exception, even when it becomes individual. The principle of the universe works. Now here on the tree of life, on the paths of return, the whole involutionary series goes from number one down to ten. Like a lightning flash, incidentally. You take to one, you go to two. See, take the one, the white, and go to two, the gray, then go to three, the black, then go to four, the blue, five, the red, and go through yellow, six, down to green, seven, across to eight, the orange, to nine, the violet, it should be violet, it's a little dark, and then down to malkuth, which is the physical manifestation. you see there outlined a lightning flash.

And this lightning flash is very symbolic and important in occult training, incidentally. That's the involutionary series.

You might say the involution of divinity into its different stages of manifestation, each of those circles representing a stage of its involution and evolution from previous incarnations or manvantaras. Because remember, divinity has the vast universe as an area of function, and we have our personal universe as our area of function, within and for that divinity. The same principle, though, exists, as above, so below, that says, in alchemy, as within, so without, as the vast, the macrocosm, so the microcosm, in smaller measure. This is what makes us sons and daughters of God. We have the same powers, but in smaller measure. And it is a sort of growing, evolving thing. So that's the involutionary theories. Then in the evolutionary theories, we go from the understanding of the physical. This is what science is working on so much, as you know. And now physical science is on the road to swinging. it has already swung from just physical to the number nine, which is the subconscious astral, though they don't know it yet, that that's what it is.

But they still say that when they measure or work with, for instance, atoms and cosmic rays and electromagnetic patterns, they have left the actual completely physical. They've gone into mental concepts that really belong to the higher levels of our own being and their being, except that now physical science is starting to bring about the verifications of what Qabalah has been teaching through all these years. So they are starting to work from that area. But we, in our work in terms of developing our adeptship, since, as I pointed out, we're all really initiates, each in whatever stage we're in. We have to go about understanding just what is involved then in this pattern of adeptship. Well, according the whole most ancient of the real mystery training, remember the real esoteric teaching is, though this has never been given out as such, is that it was given by the angels.

And by angels, angels mean anything you want to make it mean. Certainly it's something other than man.

And some think of it as beings who've evolved in previous incarnations, who've already recapitulated while we are, as human beings, and are a step above us. Others think of it as the correlate type of evolution that's taking place in divinity. nevertheless this pattern of evolution and training has been given us by a level of consciousness higher than man's and higher than man's subconscious consciousness which goes in for psychic being in other words from a level that knows spiritual reality and this particular knowledge or this method is older than any thing there is on the face of the earth this real real mystery training. And this is what the mystery schools are really all about. They're not exactly at all what you've read about in your novels, though the novels are very lovely for inspiring you towards wanting to know more about it. So then when we achieve our complete recapitulation, where we're ready to take permanent higher steps, we are guided then to various schools of training that will give us the understanding, the perception, the stirrings, even will be guided to the books we need, to bring us to the next development of our evolution.

Then, when it is being prepared to become permanent, that's when we're guided. That is, in the higher levels, we're guided to the deeper type of training processes. And that's when we're guided, as I said, to something like the Western occult training system that works with tarot, with Qabalah, with the ceremonial ritualistic methods. Now, what has that got to do with the training into adept-ship? Everything, incidentally. Everything. Because, bear this in mind, the entire universe is a dance of life. I think it's shown beautifully in that tarot key to your left, above, tarot key 21.

the divinity is the dance of life and we are all movements and motions in this divine or universal dance now a dance of life is a ritual, it's a ceremonial all of living is ritual and ceremonial and it is done in symbolic measure so that as we are trained to work with symbols and by symbols I mean going into deeper symbols than words because words are symbols of images and images are more directly concerned with your inner life as we are trained into working with symbols and then with the action or activity of symbols because remember ritual and ceremonial that is in its real forms I don't mean those who dress up and just prance around in order to be exhibitionists I mean this may be make-believe kind of ceremonial but it hasn't got any real power outside of the fun that children have playing grown-up which isn't bad I mean it's fun but it isn't the real ceremonial that takes you places in occult training. And there are lots of people who make up all kinds of rituals, the ceremonials, through psychic delusions, and then claim that they are the Lemurian organization or the Atlantean organization or the this. And if you want to research them, you should, and then you can see by what they're teaching and how they teach it and what they do, whether their claims are correct or not. But usually they are the most deluded of deluded beings because you can go to the library and find definite line of that there is a definite line of occult training that has been known for an awfully long time and that oldest line is qabalah without any question and that's what we represent and it hasn't been anything that's been left to chance or somebody picking anything up psychically in some kind of psychic pipe dream it's like having having an opium dream.

It's something that has been a definite system, that has been definitely taught, and that we represent, and that has not had any breakage, incidentally, in this chain of training.

Only it is a disciplined sort of growth process. And you have to be ready for that kind of discipline, which means for self-transmutation.

So your paths of return really start in the most intensive manner when you become prepared for acceptance into what we call the esoteric part of builders of the adytum. You're already on the path of return, recapitulating when you're on whatever phase of builders of the adytum work you're doing. But you see, here is the point. Initiation, as the word itself implies, is a beginning. Also, as all your readings surely have told you shows that there is some kind of symbolic ritual and ceremonial that's involved now this symbolic ritual and ceremonial no matter how much we may dislike ritual and ceremonial i mean i hated them myself until i was forced to come to understand them more thoroughly and see that what i was hating was my idea of it and the misuse of it by orthodox bigots rather than the thing in itself. The thing that we have to come to see, to realize, to understand is that in preparing ourselves for the privilege of participating in this ceremonial ritual and being initiated into it, what we're doing is preparing ourselves to be able to function as a larger body. Because your physical body, for example, is made up of individual cells and if your individual cells couldn't function together harmoniously, you couldn't have a physical body that would be a receiving station for the spiritual energies of human thinking and feeling in an incarnation.

You couldn't have reincarnation, incidentally, except your soul, your higher soul, had attained the evolutionary level for its process of evolving its personalities, where it is able to hold together the substance and force of the universe so that you have these untold numbers of trillions of beings little bits of consciousness cooperating in emotion and interchange and relationship which takes place to make a physical body doesn't it and it is your higher consciousness that holds it and is responsible for it as a matter of fact and and has grown it in and through the knowledge it shares with the recapitulation of mass mind incarnation, which I pointed out to you previously, and its recapitulation of, therefore, the whole use of the physical vehicle by the higher soul, and the whole growth process that goes back to the beginnings of a particular cycle cycle to develop centers of divinity into conscious sons and daughters and conscious cooperators with divinity as the sons and daughters for evolution.

So you have this necessity of having evolved to a point where you can come together with other centers, just like the cells of your body have to come together and be held for the expression of that miracle of your vehicle, of being able to come together as a group body, often called like a body of Christ. And by Christ, we're not talking about Jesus of Nazareth. We're talking about that center, which is the yellow center, which is generic humanity. And when you attain that level in your evolution, you are being trained to become truly conscious of your being the begotten child of the Most High. That's what it really means, in essence. That's the Christ consciousness. consciousness is full knowledge that you are begotten of the Most High, which you are anyway. An infant is begotten of its parents, but it doesn't know it consciously until it grows up, does it? The same way, or gets old enough.

It's the same process involved here.

Therefore, we have the gift from those who've gone on before us in the hierarchy, the gift of methods that help to bring us together so that we can work with certain patterns called ritual ceremonial and this is what we do in our Sunday morning work too you know you're already you know we're very insidious and we have trained you in the Sunday morning work to do a very vital part of this very group ceremonial ritual work which has been evolving you as well as helping humanity in general in this group participation. So we have more and more esoteric levels of it. This is what you might say our enticement and original training as we start trying to bring you towards the various other steps and to inspire you to want to prepare yourselves for the various other steps, just like if we had our schools properly organized, the elementary schools would inspire the children to want high school beyond all else.

and high school would inspire the children to want college beyond all else, providing they had the capacity. And so, of course, we work in that manner, too, really. You know, they say that a true occultist has to be as wise as a serpent, and so we try to be insidious about luring you towards that which is going to bring you your glory and awareness and the greater perfection of the miracle of being within your own self so that you can be through with these nonsensical tears and sorrows, at least in your individual life.

Because we've had all we need or we wouldn't be here. Really, we wouldn't. You're ready to lose your personal sorrows, to work towards losing them, or you wouldn't be guided here. Not that you're going to lose the sorrows of the world. I mean, it takes a little more than that. But you shouldn't want to. If you can lose your personal sorrows, that should be good enough for you, shouldn't it? and I think that's what we should be pointing our heart towards. At any rate, the whole evolutionary plan is really a plan of steps. And so from the bottom you have there Malkuth called the kingdom. There is a system of esoteric initiation once our people here prepare themselves for it, which take you from grade to grade. It doesn't suddenly give you an initiation, this miraculous experience, as you've read in books. it does link you with those levels of consciousness which prepare you for it.

Because everyone who is a part of the initiation process of the mystery training, who is involved in the initiation of that particular part of you into that grade, has already been through it, and always there's that whole hierarchy. There are some who have attained the linkage to what is called the subconscious level, and have become aware of the illusions and delusions there, or are becoming aware and have the strength to withstand it in their individuality. And there are some who have reached the point that the orange one, number eight, who are working with the real practices and testings of the higher knowledge and have been linked to those elements, those unphysical, incidentally, spiritual elements that are involved with that grade of attainment, we call it. they each have numbers in our tradition, you know, one equals ten and two equals nine. Sounds like just a lot of ashkash bagash, as the Jewish people call it, simis, which means a sort of mixture about every fruit under the sun into one concoction. And some people love it and some hate it, that is, the simis. And it's become a terminology that has been used by our comedians on TV and radio a lot when they want to mention that something is sure all mixed up into a tzimmes, you see, too much of an intermixture. But the whole point is that each grade has its very specific tune-in to a level of awareness and a development of understanding and knowledge and a philosophical concept and strengthening of the individuality within this framework so that as I said one travels those paths of return and path of return as I've told you before is incorrect it's always been the paths of return because we have many phases of our consciousness that are involved in the 32 paths of wisdom and we go on then from the physical understanding the physical world to awareness of and development of control of our subconscious psychic astral world which which is the number nine right above it in the middle, to our intellectual world, which is the orange, the number eight, the splendor, that part that brings our intellectual comprehension, and then to the number seven called victory, which is our desire nature and has to do with certain phases of our emotional world and our ability to direct and control that towards a true philosophy or philosophical perception of life.

And then the tremendous part is to go on to the number six the beauty Which is really also involved with the ability to consciously use the imaginative Functions or faculties of your being creatively and positively see we use them But we use them unconsciously to become the conscious son and daughter of God notice how it it balances that whole tree of life and And this is the begotten Son of God, incidentally, which is you, and only to the degree that you become conscious of it. Do you really know it? Now, there are initiations that take place in the esoteric part of our work that deal with ritual and ceremonial, and a lot of study, which are part of the thing that help you to get yourself aligned to these forces. And how does this alignment take place? It takes place because others who've gone on these to these various areas are willing to go through the time the trouble the effort They have enough love and they help themselves in their own growth, too So that it isn't completely unselfish. In other words, I help you I grow more and that's what I call divine unselfishness That's flying won't favor that And so there are those who have these linkages who are always involved with the initiation with the help helping you to get yourself linked It doesn't bring you anything miraculous overnight at all.

It links you to opening up and developing in that area more comprehension and control and power. And as the Master R. told Dr. Case and myself more than once, even being initiated into what we call the second order, which is the sixth beauty, the ability to consciously become the son and daughter of God, even that, it takes not less than three incarnations to really get the full realization. that people could be starting up in our work when once they've prepared themselves for our esoteric initiations. They could be starting up and say being malcus and yet somebody who we call just a beginner is barely initiated. We have special terms for them the way they're really probationers. A person like that could be more highly involved than somebody who's been initiated into to second order, incidentally. Only they may be on a recapitulation scheme, having a special other job to do. And that's why it is always a mistake to say what grade are you in once you even know your own members.

It isn't what grade you're in, because the lower grade could still be higher than the one who's apparently in the higher grade. They just haven't gotten linked into bringing, for this cycle, the full knowledge. That's why we don't permit spiritual pride to develop in and through the grades. or lording it over anybody and things like that because that's not the spiritual way but the pattern of adeptship really begins when one achieves the initiation in that yellow area because that is called in qabalah the lesser adept by lesser adept it means from here on out the work is in perfecting the personality from that higher level the personality is all below Below that circle we call beauty, that's Sephirah, which Sephirah means an emanation of divinity or a specialized way of consciousness. The divinity is emanating. Therefore, it's a sphere of the expression of consciousness or an area in which consciousness or the intelligence of God expresses, which is you.

And any level we're on is still God. These adorable two children were behaving far more beautifully than my grandsons would in the face of this very much too long talk.

They are expressing the higher form of divinity, and they could be far more highly evolved than we are. They could be fantastically more, yet they can't think the things we can think or do the things we can do, can they? Yet they might be much older souls because they haven't yet grown to that part of their physical body and the ability for it to act as a vehicle to express it. You see what we mean? so we must never get spiritual pride that goes before the most dangerous falls of all this is what we must always warn about and the adepthood then starts at from the time we consciously get to that point in our initiation in our inner being you may have done it in a previous incarnation but you still have to recapitulate to make it something stronger and expressive and to get to the point where you can function together into like a spiritual body of God through a group who've been working with you, who are your spiritual brothers and sisters, which we are together here, and then we have these different grades.

So to make it something more powerful, more potent, more usable in every way for you, and therefore for life. And then from that, there are the grades above, but you never travel upwards from that point on, incidentally. you open yourself to those upper knowledge or awarenesses.

Always then, all those paths are brought in, and that's why the attainment of that particular point is called the highest attainment, not that you get it, because once having had that, you have untold numbers of incarnations in which you have to bring in all the powers that come above there, like the number five, the red one, that's the power to know I am the will of God and God's will works in and through me completely. Then that number four, which is called mercy, that is that complete feeling of unity with all life so that our compassion is universal and we can feel the pain of a blade of grass and a flower and a tree as well as a creature. Pleasant? No.

Ecstatic? Yes. In other words, it's unity with God and life. It's got its compensations. And then beyond the abyss, the masters of wisdom have attained even beyond that. That's why we call the abyss. Between three and four is called the beyond the abyss. And then that has their terminologies. But the actual three grades of adeptship are the three grades of this part, the yellow, the red, and the blue, called beauty, severity, mercy.

The attainment of, or the beginnings of the attainment of Christ's awareness for the yellow, for the red, the attainment of the realization of being a complete channel for the will of God, the Father willeth and therefore I will. The Father worketh and heretofore I work, as was read to you. It's attaining that kind of power. And that is called the greater adept. The yellow one is lesser adept. Then the blue one is called exempt adept. Exempt because that person is exempt from personal karma, though it's not exempt from karma. It's got the karma of of the race, of humanity, of all the sisters and brothers.

And therefore, often, although there are very few exempt adepts on this planet, I am unfortunately one of them.

And it's a rough one, because though there may not be the personal karma, you have a rougher life than anybody. Because then you're having to prove the strength of the previous grade, you see, by helping to lift the karma for the rest of the world. and i mean you can't escape it in other words you're part of god you've got to have you take on your um functions or responsibilities just like in some families everybody's got to have their responsibility or else and uh when you reach a certain point there's nowhere else you automatically do it's a compulsion from your own higher soul so that when you reach that uh you um help lift the karma of others through your love through your understanding through what you can project you know, in terms of the power. And each always has to test the previous, you see, to hold it. No matter how far you get, you can fall, incidentally. The higher you go, the harder you can fall. Although you'll always get up again afterwards, and you'll manage to get back there and even get higher yet. But that also is to keep spiritual humility going. You have to remain human.

And so you have that. The exempted depth, then, is really exempt from personal karma, and therefore certain kinds of fears, but is not exempt. In fact, has more pain, psychically speaking, spiritually speaking, than others, because they're going through certain tests of their own. Because beyond that then, and that takes an awful lot of incarnations, that abyss, is the development of what is called Master of the Temple, and that goes to stages beyond. The Masters of Wisdom are in that and above. But in the Western occult training, The highest that you can have is second order, is that 7 equals 4, it's called, exempt to depth. And you're also exempt from influence by the mass mind. That's one of the most important things, incidentally. No hysteria of the mass anywhere can touch you. You see it from the higher level always. You can't be pulled into hatreds, hysterias, disturbances of the mass mind, except in seeing what's going on and being filled with compassion and sorrow to watch it and understand it and all of us have all of it even up to the white we all have little bits of all of these things it's just what I'm talking about is consciously attaining and controlling it to the larger measure every one of you have bits of this whole tree and you're all being trained for certain controls in relation to these grades and when you get to a point where you're helped by the group spirit of ritual you're linked a little more solidly you go a little faster in when that is your karma for a particular incarnation which is a wonderful one to have because it helps you in ways that you never receive other since the whole spirit of the hierarchy is that you go through the grades of those who've attained therefore if somebody already knows you're helped and if somebody already has they can pipeline it to you you, just like piping water from the reservoir right down to your house. This is what happens when you participate in this group attainment and work in the disciplines that are involved.

And I've spoken way beyond the time we should have, but I wanted you to have some understanding. We'll talk about this idea more as we go along, but I wanted you to have some understanding of what adept really implies and even how some people may be adept who aren't showing it yet because they're just starting a recapitulation of previous state and we'll get there so you see we may all be far more than we are or even far less and that isn't important the important thing is to strive together and to love together and share together and know that we are on our way towards miracle and mystery uh beyond description and to hold with that no matter how far how how despondent we get to realize we're just gathering strength for the next miracle, mystery, a high. And no matter how high we get, to realize that we must spread it and project it to all those who aren't that high or mystical or full of that rapture at the moment, since we're liable to go down and up again, and to just hold to the divinity and the miracle of the guidance we have had to this point that we have achieved a state where we can reach with aspiration as we do we are indeed already or very next door to becoming very conscious sons and daughters of God in the deepest sense and hold that thought please
