We will start with a little meditational reading.

Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not love, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not love I am nothing and though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor and though I give my body to be burned and have not love it profiteth me nothing love suffereth long and is kind love envieth not Love vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in truth.

Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.

Love never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in in part, and we prophecy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child. I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly but then face to face now i know in part but then shall i know even as also i am known and now abideth faith hope love these three but the greatest of these is love This evening we are starting a series which will run each Thursday night through June and July. That will make exactly nine class evenings. So we're going to have to try to cover an awful lot of territory in order to give you all we want to give in such a short series, considering the subject we are taking up, which in actuality is an explanation to you, basically, of what the true paths of return are, and take you along with us into at least a philosophical and spiritually psychological understanding of what is required, and thereby together lift ourselves, by whatever degree we're able to, towards that which we are all aiming. But to begin with, we want to talk to you a little bit tonight as an introduction about exactly what Builders of the Adytum stands for, and to talk to you far more frankly than we have ever done before.

Now, in order to give you this explanation, we have to go back to a word you have all heard a great many times, and a word which has been misunderstood, misinterpreted, used in ways that it really was not intended to be used, but still, this is the way of human beings, is it not? We're going to deal with the word Rosicrucian.

Now, first of all, we'd like to explain how the word came to be known publicly, when, and why. Why? This information has actually not been generally known before.

Dr. Case at one time wrote a book called The True and Invisible Rosicrucian Order, which had three editions, but a very limited printing.

And then he withdrew it from circulation very, very many years ago because of certain things which were occurring in our, shall we say, metaphysical world at large, and because he was told in the ways he had of being told that the period was not ripe for general dissemination of a true understanding of this particular thing. thing. However, just very recently, in fact only a few short weeks ago, we have been told that the time has come when we should republish the book, which we are planning to do, and we should give more fully than can be given in any book the actual esoteric elements that are involved in the true and invisible Rosicrucian order in order to prepare aspirants who are now ever more becoming prepared for undertaking the true work, the true, shall we say, great work, which is involved with traveling the path of return. So let us go back for quite a few centuries centuries to the year 16, I believe it is 1604. I may be missing it out by anywhere from two to six years, but somewhere in the early 17th century, around 1604, for the first time, there was circulated a manuscript, in Germany it was, which was called the Pharma Fraternitatis.

And within a short period after that, its complement or a further elucidation was circulated, quite secretly incidentally at first, called the Confessio Fraternitatis. Now the Pharma Fraternitatis and the Confessio Fraternitatis were then printed and circulated amongst the educated people of that day and created quite a furore. Because in these two small manuscripts, it was announced that there was a true and invisible Rosicrucian order. Now, what does Rosicrucian mean?

It actually means rosy cross, literally. and those who have that state of consciousness are actually known as brothers of the rosy cross though many people think they are this uh there are many people who think many things because you see it's a state of consciousness and we may aspire to that development which we will explain explain, but we cannot be it. We can only become it through evolution and through growth. Well, at that time the announcement was made that there was a society based on certain principles of teaching, based on very specific rules, regulations, means, methods, and grades, so that those who were duly prepared, who did not have gross wits, would find the opportunity to acquire all of the secret wisdom which existed, to acquire a mastery of consciousness, consciousness, to acquire a way in which to overcome all the illnesses of the physical and psychic universe, shall we say. And in these two manuscripts, it was stated very clearly that those who searched for this particular society, thinking that it would help give them the powers in order to become come rich would seek in vain, that those who sought for it in order to attain power over others would seek in vain, because only those would find it, who were ready for it, and then they would not be searching in the same way.

Now the thing that was made very clear in these two manifestos was that the actual teaching training system was based upon the holy Qabalah, and we repeat that the holy Qabalah. Now we will not go into what the holy qabalah is yet because this you will receive through this series and you will receive things we have never yet given in public because as we have been told the time is right nor will you receive all of it because always there is that which is still hidden and esoteric and you yourselves must prepare yourselves in order to earn the privilege in order to earn the state of consciousness which will make you able to receive and utilize of that which goes further still much which has never been given before will be given now and so it is making grade. And the amount of time that it takes to make the grade, incidentally, depends on each and every individual, depends on the degree of perseverance, aspiration, and perhaps many other things. Now then, let's return to what occurred at that period and then what the developments were. Incidentally, these manifestos made it very clear that this inner order has existed since after the fall of Adam, that it was given by those who had had higher states of spiritual consciousness, or shall we say higher beings than man.

That Moses, Enoch, Solomon, David were very learned in this particular training, and that Pythagoras, and it mentioned many others, had initiation into it, and utilized this training. Now here is one thing we'd like to point out right now in relation to the holy Qabalah. Actually, by announcing in ways which it was impossible to miss, because those who had even a smattering of the holy Qabalah, and all the learned of that period had incidentally had it, instantly saw from what was written that the holy Qabalah was being referred to. Now again, what has not been realized or understood is that the secret wisdom of Israel has had several divisions, several departments. Remember that it was the Hebrews who brought to this planet the first monotheistic teaching up until that time we had a series of all kinds of gods god for love and a god for hate and a god for fertility and a god for propitiation in case of jealousy and so on i mean the whole territory was quite covered and people worship the different gods depending on the various things which they wanted to acquire or wanted to propitiate.

And it was the destiny or the karma of the Hebrews to bring to this planet the first truly spiritual recognition, truly spiritual teaching, that is that God is one. He is one and one alone rests under the shadow of his wing comes from the same ancient and glorious source. And again it has been little realized that all the great prophets of the Bible were trained in the holy Qabalah and that Jesus the the Christ, when he was discussing the various points of law in relation to the Bible, in relation to spiritual things at the age of 12, was found to be so profound and spiritually spiritually talented in potential, that he was sent in order to have training to a school, which is an exact, shall we, well, let's not put it that way, which goes back link by link from the present day down to that period and beyond. In other words, the school, words it was, the school of the Essenes. Now I know there are many groups who claim they are the Essenes, but in actuality this is usually either a false claim or comes from those who are quite deluded, because the historical development is known very well to the few who have had the responsibility and the privilege of keeping alive this special training system and they have not been very many on this planet throughout the generations this you certainly must realize now then anyone who takes even a little time to study the holy Qabalah will discover that Jesus had to have been trained in this. Now what were the divisions of teaching and spiritual training which have developed now down to this period? Let's try to explain it just a little bit, and then we will give you a little more data on the word Rosicrucian.

Now, the holy Qabalah actually is said to be in four parts.

First, there is the practical Qabalah. It isn't that that is the first item, but that is one of the four categories. The practical Qabalah deals with training in ritual and ceremonial. Then there is the dogmatic Qabalah. These have long, long commentaries that have to do with many and varied details and rules and regulations.

Then there is the literal Qabalah. This is a training in number and letter in order to have the background for use and ritual of the white magic of the esoteric training. And then there is the unwritten Qabalah, which has never been given out in any written form in its completion, though there have been a few who have broken obligations, have given out parts of it, and to these, their own backwash of broken obligations have been what they have had to deal with. it. So let's, now that we've given you these categories, let's return to the other categories, because there are three other divisions. There were written the books of the law and the prophets by, incidentally, the Qabalists. What are the books of the law and the prophets? the holy scriptures. This is the Bible. Then there's the Torah. The Torah happens to be long and detailed commentary on the actual laws, moral and spiritual laws. And then there's the holy Qabalah which is the mystical interpretation of the hidden wisdom of Israel and was always reserved for the very very few who had the spiritual readiness and the ability to undertake such a serious and it is a very serious study because it actually has to do with practically everything that you are familiar with when you think of the term initiation.

These were the ways and the means and the methods through the utilization of these writings.

Now the old rabbis, whenever they were asked, where does the holy Qabalah come from, always said, similarly to what was told in the Fama Fraternitatis and the Confessio Fraternitatis, These old rabbis said, why, the holy Qabalah was given to us by the angels after the fall of Adam so that man would not be lost, so he would have a way of reattaining the Garden of Eden.

And indeed, though many of us may smile at this idea, those who have had certain types of mystical experience, and there are many such, and the literature of the world is full of reports of these various types of mystical experiences where people have certainly touched the consciousness of other beings and have at least a good portion of the time alluded to these types of consciousness as being archangels or angels. So that the idea of angels should not make us sneer in any way if we will consider that consciousness surely cannot be limited to only what we can see and sense with our five physical senses. That consciousness surely must be a hierarchy, an evolution of hierarchies and there must be levels and levels of consciousness reaching right into the heart of God and the total all consciousness of the one the indivisible blessed be he it is usually said by the ancient Hebrew Scriptures when they allude to that idea now then the development let's we we will now return to 1610. You see, up until the 14th century, the continuation of this school of training was kept completely hidden, as it had to be, because remember what happened was when the Dark Ages descended upon us.

And remember what happened.

The fires in Alexandria burned, they said, for six months with all the books and the manuscripts which were pulled out by the then bigoted, narrow group who were in power and had decided to give a certain very rigid and literal interpretation to the Holy Scriptures, and they very carefully sifted out everything that could even begin to show what the entire basis of Christianity stood on. And actually, this we must always remember, the hidden wisdom of Israel came from the Jews. Christianity came from the Jews. Never forget, because you will see how well it will stand you, never forget that Christ was a Jew and that Paul Paul was a Jew and that the New Testament was written by Jews. Never forget that in that period, you see, these are the things that most human beings are not familiar with, unfortunately.

You must always try to remember that the first Christianity actually came about in this way, in the holy Qabalah, and see we have to return to it, in the holy Qabalah the word Mashiach, which means Messiah and in Greek is the Christus, also means the Redeemer, also means Adam, generic humanity. And in this holy Qabalah the teaching was quite consistent that when when any child of Adam, any human being, attained to a certain state of consciousness, this state of consciousness made him know, made him know, not think or believe, that he was one with God, the Son of God. It was an awakening to a higher evolutionary level of consciousness. And so when Jesus came upon the scene, there were those amongst the Jews who said, No, I don't believe he has attained the state of Messiah, Mashiach, the state of being the anointed. And there were those who looked and listened and said, Oh, yes, he has.

And this was all amongst the Jews.

And so the Jews who said, Yes, he has, they followed Jesus. And they became known as Christians by the Greeks.

But they were actually a Jewish sect, just the same as you take the Protestant religion and you'll divide it up into Presbyterians and Baptists and God knows what else. There are different groups within groups. But they're all Protestant. So your first Christians were the Jews who accepted Jesus as the Christ. as the Redeemer, since in the holy Qabalah it is taught that every time any individual attains to that state of Christhood, he becomes the Redeemer for all mankind. And indeed, the trouble is we have too few who have attained that state. And when one attains that state one is not only at one with Christ but becomes an instrument for the Christ as did Jesus of Nazareth who was as far as we know the very first on this planet to attain to that glorious and wonderful level he went through bramble and thorn and suffered mightily because the those who go first have a much harder time of it in order to make it a little easier for those who come after.

Now, the destruction of so many of the manuscripts brought a great tragedy, as you can understand, to the development of Christianity, because it took away the only key that existed for an understanding of the Holy Scriptures, both Old and New Testament. And it lent itself then to bigoted and literal interpretations of what was not meant to be that at all. And I know that those of you who are taking the lessons of Builders of the Adytum and and are training yourselves at home, have even in a few short months had your eyes open to the true and glorious and beautiful meanings of various parts of the Bible, which always sounded like a lot of poppycock before. Now isn't that so? I know because so many of you write in and tell us, and of course we know that it is inevitable. And because this was so, you can see that the dark ages which descended were very dark indeed however this teaching this training was not lost to the world it was only that very very few were able to find or be attracted to the actual spiritual training system of initiation and yet those few were found here and there and the system of ritual, ceremonial, spiritual training, development of spiritual and occult powers, these continued right on. Somewhere along in the 14th century, 1300-something, the great adepts, the masters of wisdom, who had followed in the steps of Jesus, who had attained, who had continued in the line of teaching and evolutionary growth, these individuals gave out to the world what is now called the tarot and this tarot was incorporated into the spiritual training initiatory system as you will see on that tree you see those tarot keys all in between those circles and that of course we will explain and just what the state state of consciousness involves and how one attains to the growth and the perfection and the development of the powers of the tree of life, which is exactly what is alluded to, incidentally, in the Bible, though very few seem to recognize it.

So the system continued. the tarot was incorporated into it because the Dark Ages having descended with such tragic fullness, it was found that it would make it easier to train the initiates by including including the symbolic pictorial meaning of these paths of consciousness, these paths of the emotional, mental levels of life, that it would help to open up the inner vistas more fully by bringing a fuller type of training to this initiatory system. And then in the 1600s, around 1610 is when it was actually publicly circulated, these manifestos, for the first time they made it known in writing that it existed. And as we mentioned to you before, all the erudite of that period instantly recognized the Holy Qabalah as being the framework of the true initiatory system for the Rosicrucian growth however we have not come to explain to you fully yet about what is involved with Rosicrucian here because here is what developed from that period on the chains link by link continues of these various schools of training there were never very many, because in actuality there are never very many human beings on the planet at any one time who have the capacity to even persevere in this type of teaching and training, let alone attain to the states of consciousness and therefore, remember, states of power which which are involved in such a system and the chains therefore were kept intact link by link until now I will bring you forward to the period of the early 18th and middle and late 18th no 19th centuries. At that time, once again, people started to hear about the Rosicrucian Order, and they started to hear about it through the Golden Dawn. Now, I know some of you may not be familiar with the Golden Dawn, and I know many of you have read about the Golden Dawn.

This was a true link, incidentally, in this chain of spiritual teaching training which had the Qabalah given to us by the angels after the fall of Adam, or shall we say, being given to humanity in order to bring to humanity a light, a center of light, no matter how dark the planet became, came, since it has gone in cycles of the up and the down, that it gave, it was an insurance for humanity, keeping these links alive, even though they were always so few who were able to enter into and have the training in this system.

now very shortly after that suddenly this started to spring up all over the lot group after group starting to yell i am the true rosicrucian order there's what was one in in one part of the world i'll not mention names one in another part of the world various parts of the country people started to get dizzy of course lots of them never even knew what was the Rosicrucian order. They never even realized that it had to do with, that is, its first public announcement had to do with the Fama Fraternitatis and the Confessio Fraternitatis. But all over the lot we started to hear claims, we are the true Rosicrucian order.

and people flocked to them here and there. Some of them had some very fine teachings mixed with a lot of nonsense. Some of them had very nonsensical teachings mixed with a little wisdom. It varies. Nevertheless, the whole claim of being the only true Rosicrucian order in itself, itself, incidentally, was a dead giveaway to those who knew. And why? Because, you see, those who knew and those who know know this, and they know it well. There is no such thing as a true Rosicrucian order on the outside. That is why Dr. Case called that book the true and invisible Rosicrucian order. The true and invisible Rosicrucian order, as we told you a little earlier in this talk, is a state of consciousness. However, as was announced in those two manuscripts, the truth is that this true and invisible Rosicrucian order has had and has outer societies where the teachings are given, and these actually are preliminary teachings, where the trainings are received in order to help prepare aspirants to become Rosicrucians, and by becoming it we mean attaining that state of consciousness. And also, here is the point, these societies, which are what you might call outer vehicles or vestiges of this true inner order, we have always alluded to it, incidentally, as the inner school. And we'll explain to you why. It's because we have very religiously up until now avoided the use of what the true work stands on for reasons which we will explain in the latter half of tonight's talk but the fact was and is that these societies which which were and are actual vehicles for these attained and truly attained enlightened human beings, had one thing that would show what they really were. They trained people on the paths of return through the Tree of Life, because this is the system that was an initiatory system that was used by Abraham, Moses, David, Solomon, Jesus, Pythagoras, and down the line to many other names which would amaze you, true, Benjamin Franklin, and a host of others.

but the point to remember and it can easily be proven by reading to you from the manifestos which i think i will do in part read you a few paragraphs before the course is finished not tonight to show you that this is based on actual and absolute knowledge and not on hearsay or guesswork. Therefore, the Golden Dawn, which we mentioned, definitely was one of the links in this chain of societies, which was in a sense you might call a preliminary preparatory ground for attaining contact with the Masters of Wisdom, the enlightened and illumined ones. Now here is what always occurred and always does occur. Any outer society after all has what? It has a group of human beings as a part of the group. Any work, true intensive spiritual occult work, intensifies the whole nature. Now when the whole nature is intensified, your good is heightened heightened and your evil, if you want to use that word, though we prefer immaturity, we think it's a kinder word and more in accordance with reality, your immaturity is heightened so that the occult aspirant finds himself pretty much in the same state that Saint Paul was in when he cried out that the spirit was willing but the flesh was weak, and when he cried out the good that I will, I do not, and the evil that I would not, this I do. This is part of the initiatory process, and every occult aspirant must go through it, so that in these societies, you see, what the masters of wisdom have, that is, if you have a true society, what they have is a proving ground, a testing ground, a training ground for those who will eventually become real and positive functioning factors in the true and invisible Rosicrucian order. And so in these outer societies, because of the heightening of everything that you are as a result of these intensifications, which is inevitable, it must be, you have an awful lot of just let's be frank, plain SOB elements develop.

And then people wonder, well, I thought so-and-so was an occult aspirant. I thought that so-and-so was spiritual, but look what he or she has done. And then they lose faith in the work. It's a mistake. It's just that some people fall by the wayside a little more readily than others, or in certain areas they fall more readily than others.

And because of this particular principle that is involved in all spiritual growth, you see, the reason it happens is because the scum has to rise to the top. It's a boiling process for the soul. and then when the scum rises to the top the aspirant can't help seeing the reactions like envy jealousy fearfulness and then he knows what what to go to work what to go to work on in himself because transmutation of the personality is the great work and until major transmutations take place, you will in no wise be admitted into the inner secrets and into the inner development of powers. Your own personality keeps you out. This is one of the safeguards that just is by way of the principle which exists in the universe.

So in such societies, handled by human beings after all, you have these developments. And from time to time various jealousies, desires for power, gossipings, and so on develop, particularly if there is a very poor discrimination being shown by the leaders. And this is exactly what occurred in the Golden Dawn. Unfortunately, they accepted within themselves a lot of psychic teaching there were a couple of members called D and Kelly who were very very psychic indeed and they claimed they were in touch with great archangels and there was very poor discrimination shown and so they brought through what were called the Enochian tablets which were really demoniacal tablets incidentally a focal point for consciousness in rather destructive forces and this started to interfere because the leader of that time was under the spell of these psychic individuals and having very poor discrimination in that element anyway or in relation to those two people this leader accepted into the Golden Dawn colored it with this psychic business and And that's when the Golden Dawn started to develop these powers of disruption.

The various unhappy human failings became stronger and stronger because of this dreadful development.

And, of course, because the masters of wisdom have always seen to it that a true and powerful vehicle is available for the continuance of this teaching training initiatory system because of that they have always been on hand in order to see that the light does not go out they sort of shall we say bring into incarnation the next link in the chain when one vehicle cannot serve anymore more because they know they're dealing with fallible human beings aspirants it is true but some of them with not very happy uh motives shall we say therefore when this started to develop another interesting thing started to take place although at that time dr paul foster case who's the founder of our work, was not aware of what was happening. He developed an absolute passion for research into tarot on his own when he was only 16 years old. And at that time, incidentally, the true tarot attributions were not publicly known at all.

There was a great deal of confusion, because only those who had been initiated into true knowledge would have a way of knowing. But he started to study everything he could, and as a result of looking at these tarot keys he ordered every kind of pack he could get hold of from everywhere, the result of pondering and meditating on these symbols because remember symbols are the language of the inner spirit and those who are trained in the true meditational practices involving symbols are the ones who develop the intuition and the contact with those levels of consciousness which the usual way of thinking can never and we repeat never reach this is the reason for the use of symbol and it has become more and more realized now by even most modern psychologists the vital importance of symbol and its understanding so as we said dr case all by himself without knowing what was occurring in this other world unaware that it even existed started to study, meditate, search, do research into the tarot, where it came from, what it does, why. And the result was a development of a heightening of consciousness which absolutely startled him, because he did not even know that this is what the tarot did. He found out because it just started to happen to him spontaneously. And at the same time he started to hear an inner voice which he thought was an auditory experience of his own subconsciousness.

And this inner voice was helping him to find the things he needed in his tarot researches. One of of the examples he used to love to give was that he would go to the library and the voice would suddenly speak up and say if you'll reach for the third book uh second shelf uh from the left and turn to page so and so you'll find the quotation you need i mean now that's pretty being pretty exact and that's it was always so this voice did not interfere with his personal life it did not tell him he's wonderful or marvelous or had a great mission or anything like that all it did was occasionally speak up to give a little help or push in terms of research this went on for many years meanwhile dr. case published his tarot findings and the result of this made made certain people in the Golden Dawn aware of him because they were startled to discover that somebody else had on his own come across some of the esoterically held teaching it's just one small portion of it of course but still it startled them and so when dr case was in new york the then head of the Golden Dawn approached Dr. Case, got acquainted with him, and asked him to join this Rosicrucian society, the Golden Dawn. This was way back in the early 1900s, very early indeed.

So he joined the then Golden Dawn. The head of the Golden Dawn for America and Canada at that time was michael witty they became very close friends and did some very startling and wonderful esoteric things together one of which was being channeled for bringing through the book of tokens which have you got available there this book of tokens which give the most astonishing meditations cabalistic meditations on the tarot keys that you can imagine it has been called by those who have reason to know the Western Bhagavad-gita it's a startling thing and it was even more startling to discover after it was brought through what a complete spiritual philosophy and way of life it pointed to in its amazing manner I see that it's time for a little intermission but before we have the intermission i think we want some announcements and then we will tell you about the miraculous thing that happened to dr case and tie it in again with the understanding of the word rosicrucian and many other things involved with this course all right dear this is the reverend eleanor prasann my associate and beloved assistant who will now give you the announcement All right.

All right.

I guess we're ready to continue.

We told you about Michael Whitty, who was the then head of the Golden Dawn for the United States and Canada, and who himself was instrumental in bringing Dr. Case into the order, the society which worked on the Rosicrucian pattern.

Dr. Case very quickly rose to becoming one of the chiefs of the order because he had had so much training in interiorly and then Michael Whitty became ill and had to leave the city in fact he came out to California from New York and Dr. Case was made the head of the order for the United States and Canada. He also took over Michael Quiddy's job of being editor for the Azoth magazine, which was the great occult magazine of that period. And then came the miracle.

The phone rang one day, or I should say one evening, and there on the telephone was this voice that he thought was an auditory hallucination helping him in his researches this voice that had been such a guide well we leave it to you to imagine what his reactions were they were quite intense but they're speaking to him on the telephone was a voice he knew very well indeed had known through many many many years and the voice asked him if he recognized his voice and he said he certainly did an appointment was made and he met a human being and I want to say right now a flesh-and-blood human being this was no psychic vision this was no visitation in a dream this was no fantasy this was no delusion he met a flesh-and-blood human being at the old Waldorf Astoria Hotel who was the very human being who had been behind putting out the Pharma and the Confessio Fraternitatis way back in 1604. Now add up his age and you get an idea of what that human being was. He was and is a real master of wisdom. And he was and is the one who has been the head of the teaching, training, working, initiatory system for the Western mind and body, for the Western evolution. There have also been and never forget it I mean we do not deny it we are happy that it is so there have been in our Eastern types of training in the East which incidentally have were meant for Eastern minds and bodies in the Eastern culture not for the Western because the Western culture and those human beings who are born or or through karma come to the Western world.

These have a system available if and when they become ready for it. And that system, that is the full comprehensive system, is based on the holy Qabalah. Now we want to say right here, we do not claim to be the only representative for the masters of wisdom in fact we happen to know that he who was our master and we will tell you who he is now we've only recently been given permission to do so that he who was behind our particular work. We do know that his prime purpose has been keeping this very particular system alive, but he himself has told us that he has other groups and that although this has been his primary job, he has other groups and therefore we do not hesitate to say that we know there are many groups being taught by many true spiritually attained ones, but we also know that there are many, and this is more than many groups, who are like the blind leading the blind, who are either deluded or make false claims.

We know this is so, and this is the way aspirants grow and develop discrimination. It seems necessary to follow false stars for a while because that's part of the growth process. But sooner or later, those who have what it takes are guided to a true center of teaching training. And we do know that ours is the most comprehensive because you see, for instance, we have elementary metaphysics which does a beautiful job of starting to prepare aspirants for spiritual growth. And it's just a very bare beginning.

We, you know, all the various new thought types of movement, and they're very fine, very fine and very necessary. These give the first teachings, the first trainings, these give the aspirant the first recognition of the importance of consciousness, the importance of thought, the creativity of thought, and start them off. but after a while the true aspirant recognizes this isn't enough there's something more after a while those methods don't work anymore something seems wrong and when that happens a further search goes on when the aspirant is ready he comes to the more comprehensive method and the more comprehensive method in actuality, the one that is the direct descendant of that which goes back to after the fall of Adam, that really includes a synthesis which we see represented on the tree of life before you with the paths. It's a synthesis of a completely rounded spiritual, metaphysical, occult psychic development and that is all the bodies are involved in the eastern teaching training system you have various divisions you know types of paths for types of people like there's the bhakti yoga for those who are the devotional type and there's the raja yoga for those who are the mental type and there's the janana yoga for those who search for the way through wisdom. And there's the tantra yoga for those who wish to do it through learning the powers of the use of vibration. And there's the hatha yoga for those who feel that if they gain control of the physical vehicle, they will attain their illumination. These are all different ways and paths that have been developed in the eastern schools of thought through these various yogas for aspirants in order to attain to higher states of consciousness and awareness. And in the West, we also have various developments, various types of paths, of which elementary metaphysics is certainly one of them. But the point is, there comes a time when you can't go one path or just be a type. There comes a time when you have to become a whole personality. There comes a time when your mind and your emotions and your direction of your physical life must all be brought together in a whole, into a controlled whole, with and through aspiration and spiritual orientation. And that is the time when one is brought to the holy Qabalah, incidentally, because the holy Qabalah contains contains all of the various so-called paths. All of the types are brought together in such a way so that the mind is developed and balanced, the emotions are developed and controlled and then balanced off with the mind. This we will show you as we go along with this class series and we'll show you how to utilize these symbols and we'll explain to you the methods that can be explained in public for using these symbols in order to bring about the development of a better mentality, which is part of what's necessary to attain the control of the emotions, the control of the physical environment, the controls of relationships, how to bring about the synthesis and understanding of the subconscious and what it is, and how to just weave back and forth a whole cloth out of this fragmented being that most of us are torn in every direction at once. Qabalah then is what one is brought to when one is ready to become whole and it takes work. We don't say it's easy. We wouldn't dare tell you it's easy. Is anything easy? Can you become a virtuoso on the piano or a great artist or a great dancer or anything without having to persevere and grit your teeth and go in for the muscular development and the mental motor coordinations that are involved? No. And anyone who promises you the easy way well then we invite you to try it and you'll find out you'll come back to us and this incarnation next incarnation it doesn't really matter in a way though it does matter in another way, because the world so sorely needs, and now more than ever, it needs those who can develop enough of the wholeness, enough of the balancing, and enough of the tune-in to the higher levels of consciousness to keep the world from really tottering, you might say to help pull up the rest of the types of consciousnesses which exist because remember always and i if i be lifted up shall lift all others unto myself and this is our job this is our job so back to dr case he met in the flesh a human being who had been walking this earth for several centuries and he was with him for three weeks being given some very special very specialized teaching and training and what was the reason well first of all i know those of you who have come to all of my other classes have heard this but for the sake of those who haven't bear with us we should share it with our new friends the master told dr case he said we do did not choose you because of any excellencies of personality that as a matter of fact your personality left much to be desired nevertheless with the evolutionary level that exists on this planet you're the best we can find and we have to work with the material we have. Beware if anyone tells you you're chosen because you're so spiritual, because you see this they see but it was not said with unkindness remember they don't expect those of us who are still struggling on our level of consciousness to have the controls that they have all they say is we were once as you now we haven't got your problems your problems to us are the same as a baby crying because the ball went under the sofa is to you when you listen to the baby cry you think that should be my worst worry or his worst worry so you see it's all a matter of where we stand well but then to go on with the essence of this story the master explained to dr case that the golden dawn had become so corrupted with so much of the negative immature elements of the personalities of those who were involved in it because of the entering into this training system alien elements which did not belong that the masters found it impossible to continue using it as their vehicle for this specialized training system initiatory system they were therefore preparing to withdraw and they do do this and they leave the hut but he explained before they withdrew from any outer from sending the vibrational intensive energies which they do it's part of what we'll explain to you through this class and just how you can avail yourself of that aid also incidentally they explained that before they withdrew they always thought to it that they had another vehicle prepared and that Dr. Case was to prepare the next reincarnation of the same system with the impurities extracted and he gave him careful instructions as to what was to be taken out which did not belong there returned to its essence he also instructed him as to what could now become exoteric and what must still stay esoteric and he told him that from time to time there would be more that could be extracted from the esoteric and given out into the exoteric.

And the thing you want to remember is that everything that Builders of the Adytum teaches, all the training you receive, through from the lessons you receive at home, through the various parts of the work you receive here, through our pranayas and beyond, all of it was once completely esoteric each era and each time puts more out into the world as the world is ready for it to draw the more and more who are prepared and this is a period this is a cycle when untold numbers of millions of human souls have been flocking into incarnation have Have you noticed the population increase that has been going on?

This is the period where there's been this tremendous influx because this is the beginning of the Aquarian dispensation. And it is during this period now that the divisions are being prepared, that is, those who are going to be able to make the grade to go on into the new and spiritual order of the brotherhood of man, and those who will have to fall back and wait for the next life wave. And that is why you see, in case you have wondered, such a tremendous outgrowth of all these various metaphysical schools of thought and such intensive searching by so many aspirants. It's because this is taking place now, and this is also the reason that the time has come for us to announce exactly what it is we do and have represented and to explain why we've been so quiet about it because we've been functioning for a very very long time and yet we've been functioning very quietly and only those came to us who came by word of mouth for untold numbers of years and it's only recently that we're reaching out with more modern methods and this under the instruction and guidance from those who guide from behind the veil shall we say now then dr. case had the tremendous benefit of the impact of this amazing consciousness of this extraordinary being so that everything which he was taught and told remained vitally alive of course and he followed the instructions builders of the adytum was formed and the golden dawn fell apart and of course as we mentioned before all kinds of different groups started to call themselves and advertise themselves as being the rosicrucian order and all sorts of people flock to all sorts of groups some of them very fine most of them giving a very good and excellent background of various metaphysical ideas but in actuality the point is that the true brothers of the rosy cross the true Rosicrucians do not and cannot belong to any outer society to make them that though outer societies have trained these brethren down through the ages and the thing to remember is that the true initiatory processes in the true and invisible order of the Golden Dawn have always involved the use of the holy Qabalah which is exactly what we are going to give you this series of talks on we are going to teach you how to understand the idea of the emanations of God's consciousness or as the holy Qabalah has taught it just what is involved in what is developed as a result of the advancements from grade to grade what is meant and thereby hope that it will stir you into taking up the really practical work of initiation that is to prepare yourselves for actually and literally traveling and remember notice how we always say these paths of return we do not say paths of return because they are paths and the reason they are paths is because it has to do remember with the development of a total readiness a perfection it has to do with development of the true christ consciousness and it has to do with overcoming the sorrows for both ourselves and the world just as jesus was dedicated to doing and you will be able to understand as we go along more of what Jesus meant as we give you these various grades of the true societies that work on the paths of return we will explain the grades and what happens what is of stirred and awakened in these various advanced initiatory elements and show you how to more thoroughly tune yourselves into those elements of intensive fulfilled areas of consciousness coming from the true and invisible Rosicrucian order so that you can become a firm link in this chain yourself and know yourselves to be forever safe to be able to say and to say it and know that it's true that if I climb up into heaven thou art there if I descend into hell lo thou art there also if I take the wings of the morning and remain in the uttermost parts of the sea even there shall thy hand guide me and thy right hand shall hold me if i say per adventure the darkness shall cover me even the night shall be light unto thee this is what you will be able to say because you will not know the meaning of fear once you have attained to an even slight contact with that in you which is there and being stirred into awakening awakening. So Dr. Case, as we said, founded Builders of the Adytum as a continuation and under the instructions of the Master. He later moved his work to Los Angeles. This was in New York. He was active for many, many years in the East Coast and traveling many places.

and in due time the Master brought Dr. Case and myself together and I was trained to take over and continue the work and represent this particular phase of the inner school's work and it is indeed a privilege for me to have the opportunity to express and give out to others just a small portion of the riches i have received from the great work that it has been my privilege to have been given but this much i would like to remind you of just as dr case was told by the master that it was not because of any excellencies of personality that he was chosen for the work and incidentally a great part of his work was to reinterpret to the modern mind this vast amount of esoteric teaching which was even more shrouded in the types of symbols which are not understandable to most of the Western minds until they're trained in it and to make available the training in symbol and number in order to help prepare you for the ability to handle universal forces which you could learn to handle in no other way so at any rate I said I did wish to remind you that just as the master said this to dr. case perhaps we could say it even more of me we do not invite any worship of the teacher your teacher myself I am just another student with you i happen to have a certain grade of teaching and training put in my hands and trust for you and i do not represent its perfect fulfillment at all i'm working along right with you so we do not invite this follow me i am the way we do not put on turbans and tell you all your troubles will be solved if you'll just meditate on me or the teacher we do not tell you that all you have to do is put your hand in your pocket and take out all your cash and you'll find your rewards in heaven this is against our obligations we are a true representation of this age-old teaching training initiatory school and if we did anything to break our obligations we would tremble at the repercussions to us from our own higher soul we're here for only one purpose and that's to help you to help you find your own Center to develop your own strengths to make your own growth just as a mother cannot grow for her child we cannot take away your privilege of growth from you we have the map in trust you see it there it might mean nothing to you now it'll mean much to you before we're through with this series and indeed almost immediately it will mean much to you indeed we have this entrusted to our care and it is our job to share with you to give you the map to show you how to safely tread the paths of return to hold your hand where you might stumble to help lift you up if you fall and we expect you to do the same for us with love and humility because we're all on a path that happens to have many tests and trials but we're going to help you recognize these tests and trials and therefore assure yourselves of passing through them with less bruises than you would have done heretofore so this is the opening lecture of the the series, really giving you a background or foundation in relation to the history.

The work of the paths and the explanation of creation as taught in Qabalah and our part in it will start with the next Thursday evening class. We're going to show you that nothing that modern science has found was strange to those who knew and those who know we're going to show you that they knew the cosmogony that they knew exactly how the universes came into being that they knew the power of consciousness to become a conscious co-creator with the creator. They knew exactly who and what, and they know exactly who and what we are and what we can do to wake up. You see, we are asleep, and there is a way to wake up, and we're going to share with you the ways and the methods, the means, the techniques. We're going to give you very important and vital techniques for helping you to hold on and in order also to help you open your eyes to what the real world is. We're going to share the miracle of expanding consciousness with you and this much too we would like to have you know that in our work we do not speak just to the mind in all the work we do we have as we have told you a link with the hierarchy of consciousness those who have attained in the various grades of attainment like a pipeline goes right to the heart of the universal ones there is this tune in and in the work we do in class classwork particularly in perneas which is the beginning of the esoteric training and then the chapter is the actual esoteric training all this you will have to prepare yourselves for if you wish to really travel and develop the real spiritual muscles in earnest meanwhile you will be given your first bird's eye view and your familiarity with the roads the paths and you'll be given your first insight into what you need to do in order to have that in you which was also in Christ Jesus these we will share with you but remember that though we we do not speak primarily to the mind what does occur in our work and you will see it is that during the classwork you will have sudden insights, sudden realizations. Some of you will even have sudden spiritual or mystical experiences, just a flash here and there, because the energies that pour from these higher levels of consciousness through these channels are aimed at stirring your soul, at opening your heart, at expanding your mind in order to bring you ever closer to that true and invisible Rosicrucian order, which means attainment of a level and development which will make you able to serve life more abundantly and have the personal fulfillment which it is God's intention that we all have incidentally so remember nothing will ever be too good to be true and this we will try to show you as we go along with the class now I will open the class to some questions yes Yes, the Master R. I forgot to mention it, yes. He is the one who's behind the real ritual ceremonial work. However, incidentally, he's very busy right now with the UN, giving a great deal of his time to that, because what is not usually understood is that the Master R, though he is the the one in charge of the ritual ceremonial aspect of spiritual growth, which means the actual initiations, incidentally, inner and outer.

The governmental development of the world is in that same area. Just think, when they meet together at Washington, Mr. Chairman, can I have the floor? You know, you have to stick to protocol. It's all a sort of ritualistic participation.

And indeed, we're going to show you what ritual really means. some of you may sneer at it and I wouldn't blame you if you do I used to but it means something different than we have thought in the past and we will show that to you as we proceed with the class yes no no anyone who studies Qabalah comes to realize that every one of the colors in fact our work Sunday Sunday morning is the usage of the color and sound in order to develop the awakening and harmonizing of the chakras safely. One comes to realize there's no such thing as the use of any particular color or flame, because if you'll just look at this Tree of Life right here, you'll see that every one of these colors have their own specific meaning. indeed they're used in spiritual the heightening of spiritual consciousness which we will explain our lessons give that quite fully as you go along and there's no such thing as a spiritual color or an unspiritual color all colors are spiritual and as a matter of fact the color violet and purple is assigned to yes it now yes it is the one that's foundation on the bottom you see there's a a circle there and the one right above it in the middle that's called yes it and you know what that's assigned to that's assigned to the subconscious astral world and that's colored violet or purple that is the color assigned to it so that any work with that particular color stirs the uh astral and in the astral abides what are taught in qabalah the shells of the dead all thought forms, habit patterns. In fact this is the thing we want to free ourselves from, not promote into ourselves. And we free ourselves by learning how to utilize a balancing of all the chakras, knowing each one as the power that goes with the inner holy planet. That's what Qabalah calls the chakras and its usage for certain states of consciousness. Any other question? Yes.

No, no. You see the Master are as well, well in actuality it's pretty much this way. The Masters of Wisdom are in different grades and levels of their own unfoldment just like we are, and not all of them have developed the ability to control the full physical vibrational levels yet, but he is one who has attained that that is why he is called in cabal it's called the master of the temple and we'll explain that when we explain those grades as we go up and when you've attained that you have attained the ability to control all levels of vibration and it is in the control of the vibrational levels that bring about the physical vehicle where the ability to keep the physical vehicle in harmony is attained so he knows how to keep the balance of the uh of the outgoing and incoming energies in such a way that he keeps that vehicle as long as he needs it or wants to but always in contact with the divine will because those who have attained that can say with jesus i of my own self do nothing the father in me doeth the work and i do the will of the father who sent me they have that full consciousness and with it the control of the physical and he does that's why he's been around so long any other questions yes you are used as a channel that's right i'm a channel for for the master and the inner school for this teaching training. No, no it's one of the jokes of those who know me rather well. When I first started to do the actual teaching when Dr. Case was still with us, I used to try very hard to prepare the classes because I'd get worried I thought suppose my mind goes blank and and after all these people are coming to be taught something and I should be prepared I owe it to them but invariably the moment I started trying to read and prepare anything I got sick as a dog and I'd land in bed and then just exactly 10 minutes before it was time to give the class or lecture the sickness would lift I'd go in and give the class well of course I'm a pretty stubborn type and it took me a long time to wake up I kept trying it for two years you see I don't give in easily but after two years I suddenly realized that I'd better give in and have complete faith in the spontaneity of the inner guidance and channeling so i do absolutely no preparation everything is completely extemporaneous i receive it and give it however i do spend the whole day in quiet and meditation whenever i give any public work sunday services i don't have to spend all day i just spend a couple of hours since i haven't awakened yet and i sleep late but on thursday evening i do that any other questions well in that case I invite you to return next Thursday evening where we'll start actually together familiarizing ourselves with what the real grades of initiation are and what they entail what they will do for us and how we can put ourselves in contact with those forces that deal with each of these grades of attainment. Good night my darling. Welcome and come back.
