Is Tarot a Guide to Supersensory Awareness?

Now, I know some of you attended the class I gave about a year and a half, or perhaps it was even two years ago, on Tarot as it relates to supersensory development and evolution. Nevertheless, a class is a little different than a talk which deals with basic principles, and usually we find that deeper meanings result that we have more expanded awareness after whatever it is we have heard has had a chance to have its period of gestation.

then suddenly because of another talk on the same subject or a group of talks we discover various items of knowledge of perception of understanding of intuition which we didn't have before that's why it is said in some ways that there's no end to the matter that is when it comes to spiritual development and although that may sound discouraging to those who've been conditioned in the eastern school of occultism where the focus in most of these eastern schools has been on let's get the you know what out of here this is all illusion delusion and snare and let's just get to reality and get away from the planet the world the body the delusion illusion the appearance etc although i know there are some here perhaps many who've been conditioned in that school of thought. Certainly, I rather embraced it when I was young.

I'm still very young, incidentally. I don't want you to think that I've said I'm not young. Let's say when I was young enough to be more or less adolescent, now I am just approaching young adulthood. That sounds a little better, doesn't it? At any rate, I can certainly sympathize sympathize with those who've been conditioned in the Eastern school of thought or those schools of thought of East Eastern philosophies Which have stressed that particular idea? Because when the soul has been traveling on and on and on even though it may not be consciously Remembering or consciously aware it does become quite weary after a while while, it becomes quite aware of the insanity that apparently exists. It feels that, oh, all it wants is to rest, to get away from this nonsense, this lunacy, this ridiculous ridiculous appearance that makes no sense whatsoever, this cruelty. And let's not hide our heads in the sand like what has been said of the ostrich, though it isn't true at all.

Humanity on a certain level is cruel.

Certainly weariness comes to the soul that has been through incarnation after incarnation. certainly it all seems to be a sort of mad nightmare dreamed at times nevertheless remember according to western occult philosophy this is not true according to western occult philosophy we say that all problems have really been blessings you'll say oh maybe she's got a hole in her head, especially if you're having a problem at the moment. It's much easier to look back upon yesterday's problems and call them blessings, if we're true aspirants, and if we haven't decided to be bitter about them, incidentally, than it is about the problem that exists today. I realize this. And it's even easier to look towards tomorrow's problems as no doubt being blessings in learning and aspiration, provided they're not here yet. And we still figure we're going to evolve ourselves so beyond it that we don't have to have it. This, of course, is understandable. Nevertheless, Western occultism does have some very strong points of view, and if the points of view were not strong, really, there would be no vitality involved, as I'm sure you must realize.

And Western occultism claims that although it is very natural at one evolutionary level when one has achieved certain intuitive perceptions of the ridiculousness of certain occurrences, the insanity, the cruelty, the horrors related to certain immature and really, therefore, barbaric types of conduct.

Although Western occultism does grant that these things occur occur and are pretty inevitable during a certain stage of evolution, that they are merely the type of experiences in the final analysis which the true higher soul of each of us will see, which bring us to the realization that except we had fallen, we'd never have learned how to walk except we had had poor mental motor coordination we'd never have developed mental motor coordination as infants except we had concentrated on learning how to focus our attention we'd never have developed self-consciousness and therefore all these pains and these evils and they are evils let's not run away from that but they are the evils of the the unevolved. And certainly we recognize that where you have a mixture of the evolved and the unevolved living together, you have quite a difficult situation. And of course, this has been one of the most difficult of situations we have been facing in this particular era. We have had the influx of very highly evolved old souls mixing themselves and, you interpermeating themselves with the souls of the life wave, which have come into being on this particular planet, along with souls that haven't made the grade in previous life waves.

We have the Aquarian age, remember, that has just started to dawn, and always this brings a great deal of the disruptive forces forces into expression not that they're really disruptive but remember until a thing bothers you you don't go to work to solve it that is not if you you like to be comfortable like i like to be comfortable only when it bothers you are you going to bother trying to solve it now you might say oh no that's not true why i remember i was worried about this or that that has to do with the world and it wasn't bothering me of course it was bothering you or you wouldn't have gone to work trying to solve that situation. Some people worry about the social situation in the world when they're children because they have brought over some kind of memory and feeling and realization. And others wait until they get to whatever other stage they need because there are other things need to come up into being. Nevertheless, the point does remain. It still has to be be stressed that in Western occultism we are very, very particularly interested in, and indeed more than interested, but we are very emotionally involved in a very special kind of training which we are attempting to give those few, and incidentally there are few if you want to take the population of the world and work out percentages.

I certainly won't. I'm a mathematical moron. And some people look at me wisely and say, ha, I think you only say that to get out of work. And I look at them wisely in order to make sure they don't know which it is.

Since if I insist I am one, they may look down on me. And if I say, oh, yes, this is true, they may think I'm being too subtle and avoiding the issues. And they may try to put mathematical problems on me, which I can't solve. So I always think the wisest thing is to just look wise and say nothing at such a point. Nevertheless, we do have to... This is just by way of having a chuckle here and there. We all know that we do this in various ways, and it helps us to sort of relax together.

The important thing that we must recognize is that the reality of higher consciousness does exist, and that this reality of higher consciousness, if it exists, it would be, as far as Western occultism is concerned, a terrible loss, a tragic loss, and almost, in some ways, you might say, a psychological crime for aspirants to want to escape into these higher levels of awareness in order to get away from the pain and the injustice and the barbarisms that do exist on a planet where we have intermixtures of souls in such varying degrees of evolution at the present time. This isn't usually true, incidentally, of the evolutionary waves of consciousness on the whole, except during the period when that division stage is being reached. That is, those, as I've told you before, who have achieved the ability and capacity to know and feel and aspire toward the true brotherhood of man, and those who are utterly incapable of it.

And there is a big difference between these two capacities. You may have those who have come up in the life wave on this planet who have the capacity, and you may have those who have been an influx of centers of consciousness, of evolution in this universe, who have come for another chance and may not have the capacity at all and not make the grade at all on this next chance, or even the next or the next.

It's part of the whole, you might say, growth process, which seems to involve a development in each particular center, which, remember, is like being a center of consciousness for the universal life, without taking away from the uniqueness of its individuality. As a matter of fact, it adds to it. but it is involved with this particular idea and so you have certain centers that do and can and worked forwards of this idea of the Brotherhood of man which is really the meaning of the Aquarian Age you know basically although there are many details that could that can be involved but that That is the principle, at any rate. And then you have all the other levels or the aspects. Now, bear in mind that even though we have this mixture here on our planet at this time, and certainly anyone who watches TV and listens to radio and reads the newspapers and goes to the library and takes out some books will see what an extraordinary bridge there is, what a deep chasm seems to exist between the learned, you know, the truly emotional and unified being who loves life by loving life.

I don't mean the one who goes off and says, sis, boom, bang, you know, rah, rah, rah, wine, woman, song. I don't know why they don't say wine, woman, man, and song, because what's wrong with the other direction? I think there's a little bit of a lack of balance here, even on its negative side. But I'm not referring to the idea of that let's-be-married-tomorrow-ye-die attitude at all, as you surely know. know. The true joyousness never goes in for that kind of nonsense. When it develops joy, the joy is because of supersensory awareness. And the supersensory awareness has to do with, really, the topic of this morning's talk, though you may have thought, well, where is is the talk on the particular topic. The point is, we have mistaken notions as to what supersensory awareness happens to be.

And one of the major notions in which we are mistaken happens to exist within the realm of the ideas related to the overall consciousness of unity with God and with the life of God, which means every living creature.

that is part of the divine.

It has to do with a recognition that this is a true supersensory awareness, as against what we often call the psychic experiences. And incidentally, there's nothing wrong with them, except they get us into trouble more often than not because we don't understand them.

But we get ourselves quite confused between the two types of experiences. Psychic experiences have to do with being receptive to certain subconscious levels of our being. Now, there's nothing evil about that. It's just that it is very prone to throw us into illusions and delusions.

because in the psychic level we are dealing with the subconscious aspect of the mind. In the psychic level we are dealing with the astral world, incidentally, those of you who are interested in psychic phenomena.

The astral world, the psychic level, are really interchangeable terms in some ways.

The psychic level we have when we dream, though most of us don't seem to realize it, we're really bringing in terminologies, pictures, that have to do with the psychic level of our own particular individual being. That is why some schools of thought have been able to sort of bring out certain emotional problems from dreams that they wouldn't have been able to do otherwise. Not that it's necessarily so, though. What they don't realize is that sometimes we just become so receptive to somebody else, telepathically speaking, that we could just as easily dream someone close to us, their problems. And this may surprise you, but it's true. I've known it to happen more than once. We can dream their problems and think they're our own. It's because in the level where the unity of life exists, until we have achieved the fullness of our supersensory powers and awarenesses. We cannot differentiate between the thought and the emotion of someone else and ourselves most of the time, not all of the time, because after all we are on the road to individualization in the complete sense.

When we think that we're completely individualized, you see, we are mistaken.

We are individualized more than any other living being on this planet, it is true. Nevertheless, if we were completely individualized, we couldn't get pulled in to the mass mind kind of hysteria that goes in for lynchings and hatings and destroyings and receiving a sort of mass propaganda reaction. action, that it couldn't affect us if we were completely individualized, because automatically our mind would reach to the device, which is in Western occultism the tarot key, since that's the quickest way to change a picture.

A picture in the mind is the most potent thing, and of course it has to be charged with emotion. motion. But when we reach to the picture in the Tarot series, that poor darlings, people all over the place are having problems with this extra dry weather, you know. Some people say that the healthiest weather is the driest weather, but that isn't really true. For some people the driest weather is relatively healthy and some people need a great deal more humidity and we have less humidity more dryness right here now than we've had than any place in the world and it's been quite irritating to the membranes you know the nasal throat and the rest of the breathing membranes because after all we are parts of nature and being parts of nature doesn't mean we're separate from god nature is an expression of god or the creator of the universe and we live within a certain environment and i know an awful lot of people have been terribly uncomfortable and i mean my heart just goes out to them they're worried about interfering with uh everybody's hearing they run away when they don't have to of course that wouldn't bother me it might bother you i have the faculty of locking out sounds i don't want to hear It may sound like escapism, but it isn't.

It's just concentrating down, and that's what has to do with supersensory awareness when you learn how to utilize the tarot properly. Because remember, the tarot, really, these various pictures, they involve a group of symbolic images so that we can have a device in order to take the consciousness which is being pulled towards the mass mind kind of consciousness, which I was just talking about. The mass mind kind of consciousness is always lower than your individual consciousness, and don't ever think otherwise. The nicest human beings individually can be pulled into a group kind of hatred and propaganda, who individually would go out of their way to nurture something that's hurt or lonely or injured. But getting pulled into this mass emotion of hatred and the need to feel big will commit the most horrible of atrocities. This is what's true of us over the... This is one of the great dangers that we are facing today through the radio and the TV and the newspaper mediums.

Keep this in mind. because there too, remember, those in control of these particular areas of propaganda are trying to pull everyone in on the levels that they are willing to be receptive to, to pull them into the kind of emotional reactions where they're going to hate this one or that one or this group or that group and want to get up and fight this one or that one. In other words, it's all an I am against and I hate and this is against, and each one, incidentally, is the true messenger of God, I'm sure you realize.

They all claim that they are the right, and they are either waving their flags so madly that you wonder they don't develop bursitis with the kind of ideas they give us, which are anything but truly American, because America was founded on the principles of true love and justice and the freedom from being pulled into mass hatreds.

So anything from that to its other extremes, we're forever subjected to it. And the supersensory awarenesses, incidentally, cannot remotely function as long as we are able to get pulled into mass mind thinking, feeling elements, as long as we are able to be pulled in to the propagandas of what others want us to think and feel. We have to reach a point, and this is why tarot and the Western occultism is so important and valuable, we have to reach a point where no one can rouse the negative type of emotion. By negative, I mean the hating kind of emotion, emotion, the separative kind of emotion, the condemnatory kind of emotion, except we investigate the whole question from beginning to end. And you say, what has this got to do with supersensory awareness? That's the point. It has everything to do with it. For example, I'm going to give you a few examples now. They're going to hit you hard, and I want them to.

I'm not going to give you his name, or maybe I should give you his name.

there was a man who had real cosmic illumination way back in the 1920s he wrote a book on it I won't give you the title, you'll know who he is the book was a very wonderful little book it was not just a book, it was a little pamphlet he had a true cosmic illumination now, what happened to this man?

the fact that he had this cosmic illumination did not save him or others because he had not gone through the disciplines of utilizing the various kinds of consciousness, of understanding the principles of consciousness, which you're trained to do, with the use and understanding of symbol and the way consciousness works. He had not had any training in that area, that is, of examining self-motivation, self-being. So what did he do? do. He started to receive messengers that he was a sort of like a minor Jesus. Maybe he thought it was a major Jesus. I don't know. And he started to write books and give out propaganda about it. And he formed a great big organization. And this great big organization was going to take care of wiping out all the evil ones. And they even got a... They had uniforms that outdid hitler in fact they copied hitler if you want to know maybe you all know who i mean by now and uh uh the well he was good headline material naturally so this uh all of these lovely colored shirts that all the various people wear uh this as far as he was concerned was a divine mission as far as he was concerned he was being guided by a super sensory level of the highest spiritual teaching probably Jesus himself and he was chosen a chosen one to help wipe out the evil ones and incidentally in case you want to know who the evil ones were in this case they happened to be Jews in some places they call them Negroes in other places they call them Orientals in other places they call them Caucasians. Depends on where you are, doesn't it? And also anyone who was in favor of certain schools of thought. So there was a sort of mixture. And they even went out of their way to find the ends of names as indicating that somebody was something else than their present religion indicated, and or race, and or genetic background. Now finally this man landed in prison.

and it took an awful long time, but he finally landed in prison as a traitor to the government of the United States of America, which incidentally I think was a just finding, because certainly anything that teaches hate is a traitor to the ideals that true liberty is founded on, as far as I'm concerned.

and he had quite a good long prison sentence but when he came out you know what happened he immediately formed a nice non-profit religious organization metaphysically oriented same started right back in because he still had complete faith in the guidance of his holy guardian angels his higher beings he was still a divinely ordained one and he continued to spew his hatred and continues today to spew out the hatred, although he's not very powerful at the moment. Now, he got all this through supersensory perception from his point of view. But what I say to you is that he, although he had a true cosmic consciousness experience, and he did, he had not achieved the ability to discriminate between what is cosmic and what is psychic, what caters to the personality lower ego requirements, and what reaches for the higher being. He had not discriminated, nor had he achieved the transmutation.

So that his need to be a vital, important messiah, You know, in the mental institutions, they call them Messiah complexes.

Did you know that most paranoids, certainly an extraordinary percentage of them, have Messiah complexes? They feel like Christ.

And almost every person who's normal mentally has had some kind of experience, sometime or other, not everyone, but almost, where suddenly they felt like they were Christ and they were going to take care of washing out all the evil with one fell swoop, whether it be a person or a condition.

It's all right. We need to reach towards the Messiah ideal. This isn't the point. The point is there's a big difference between supersensory perception and psychic delusion. the psychic delusion is on the same level with the kind of conduct that makes man hate man that makes man discriminate against man that makes man torture creatures below man and I'm saying that with very real meaning behind it it's very different than the true supersensory awareness in us. And the sad thing is that people who have not had proper training in understanding what consciousness does, basically, and does not do, and how it does it at times, and how sometimes it might not, under other conditions. It is very important to understand these things, Otherwise, we also are prone to the same delusions, the traps that hit this particular person I've spoken about, who, as far as I'm concerned, became a channel for just about the most evil forces that you can ever find on the face of the earth.

I say that anybody who goes out to save the world at the expense of any group has been taken in by the evil in his or her own nature, whether it be in a little way, just around the home, hearth, or in a larger way, if they happen to have that much ability in other directions. Therefore, the importance of understanding supersensory perception, the true guide towards what is or is not a true spiritual awareness, really lies in understanding the principles of consciousness and being willing to understand them, that is, being willing to go through the grades that give you the understanding. I have heard many an apparent or so-called spiritual aspirants say, well, I figure that someday it'll just suddenly open, boom, and then I'll know it all. As a matter of fact, there's one very important school of Eastern occultism, very well known, that seems to appeal to the very good minds.

Why, I don't know. If they come and listen to a couple of my talks on that subject, I think they'd change their mind if they really have good minds.

But then you see, I sound like a sort of messiah myself, don't I? I'm not, though, believe me, I'm not.

But these people are trained to think that they're going to receive this illumination, boom, you know, presto, digitation.

Now, Dr. Case, who was a tremendous prestidigitator, he could bring marvellous results, you know, just suddenly like that, using the hand is quicker than the eye technique because he loved this was his hobby, prestidigitation, you know, magic.

And he was a marvelous entertainer, and he delighted many of us often, though Mrs. Case and I didn't get so delighted when he'd walk up to her when her hands were in the basin of washstands and say, here, take a card, take a card.

I mean, we took a dib view.

I was genius at that moment, at those moments, it's true.

Nevertheless, there are people who, having studied that particular school of thought and become imbued with its ideas, seem to think that that's what it's going to be. They're just going to start trying to find out, take all these various little techniques, which I wouldn't consider techniques that are suitable for the Western mind and body and culture at all, they do and by just meditating on these techniques suddenly discover that oh you know they're nonsense statements that you're supposed to make sense out of and of course anyone who's developed any real intelligence it seems to me would immediately recognize the nonsense and say i should waste my time trying to make sense out of this nonsense i don't consider that a proper technique at all as as far as I'm concerned. There are ways that would seem to me a little more reasonable. Nevertheless, there are those who take these particular types of statements that mean nothing, and they meditate and meditate on them because it's supposed to suddenly open up their consciousness.

And all of a sudden, they're going to have all the illumination. In other words, this is a school of thought that believes that suddenly you're going to know it. I'd like to know how suddenly an infant can jump from infancy to adulthood. when you tell me that and you agree that this can happen then I'll tell you that that particular school of thought can work the fact that certain super sensory experiences come suddenly, this is true but they haven't come suddenly they have been things that have been going on step by step and it's just that it suddenly becomes a conscious perceptive thing that you can handle with your conscious mind but it hasn't come suddenly at all you've been working for it well this is true that other school of thought but their idea is once you've had that why you got it and I say once you've had even your first perception of super sensory awareness that's when the hard work really begins because then you've got to learn now don't look so discouraged it's not the kind of hard hard work that should bother one.

There's some kinds of work. For instance, if you love to cook, of course, I can't. At least that's what I'll insist on saying in case anyone tries to make me cook something.

But if you love to cook, why, you're going to love all the details involved and you're going to enjoy learning new recipes because this is your creative expression. And if you love to write poetry, you're going to enjoy all the details involved in getting that child born, that poem, or that song, or that piece of music, or that piece of art, in whatever field of art it may be, or even that piece of work.

You love the thing. It has often been said that it isn't the accomplishment that is so rich. It is the striving towards it that really gives magic to life. haven't you noticed that hasn't your life been at its richest every one of you look back when there was something with hope and joy you were working and striving towards now when you had it i mean in some ways it may have been a letdown now i know someone who uh she longed to get this woman longed to get married and oh she had the most marvelous daydreams of all the details involved in finding this marvelous night and shining army and so on and finally getting married and suddenly one day it all happened she got married and she went to bed after the first uh a few uh exciting uh days were over uh to get ready to go to sleep and she'd become so habituated to having this daydream that she had been picturing about getting married, she found herself lost.

The greatest joy that she had in working herself into falling asleep, she couldn't utilize anymore, otherwise she would be disloyal to the husband. It would mean having to get rid of him and getting a new one.

and though that may not seem like a very excellent example it is meant to show you basically how attached we become to the methods how much more joy we experience in the striving rather than in the so-called having.

And indeed, in Western occultism, we give you the joy through infinity. That's one reason you should stick with it, because we say to you honestly that no matter what you achieve, and you will achieve heights beyond your wildest dreams at this moment, from the moment you achieve that and have the joy of its achievement, you'll discover you have new heights to scale. In other words, the life power is eternal and goes on a continuous spiraling circle of cycles, or it doesn't. Even the astronomical universe shows this.

So that in Western occultism, we cannot, with any honesty at all, promise you complete surcease from all problems, a knowledge of what everything is all about, a peace that cannot be broken, a contentment that is a foreverness. I think you'd be a cow.

That is, a cow is well treated.

You'd have to put in that. And certainly you'd become an utter bore to people around you in case you don't know it. And I think people who have problems always look much more interesting and vital. You know, their life is driving them towards something.

and those who look at you with bland cow eyes and say, I used to be called cow eyes. I didn't like it when I was a child. I wasn't a cow. At any rate, those who look at you with bland sort of cow-like eyes and say, oh, I think life is wonderful and there's nothing but peace and joy and contentment and lovingness, and they sort of seem to float around on this Pollyanna kind of streak.

Haven't you noticed when you've met this type that they've kind of a little bit annoyed or irritated you?

Of course, you know, you wouldn't be sitting here if you were that type. You'd have nothing to learn. You understand this. If you've got everything, what is there to learn? And if you've achieved your contentment and your fulfillment, what is there to reach for?

You're a sort of unburied corpse in many ways. Now, supersensory awareness, the completion of whatever cycle we are in, according to all of the deeper mystery training systems, tells us is not like that at all.

Yes, we have periods where we reach peaks. You know, look at the Tarot Key Fool number O there. You notice he's on top, and yet he's looking towards the next peak. This is the point, that grand adventure.

Now, the Lord of the Universe, or the creative spirit, very apparently is tremendously creative.

Maybe not as creative as we are, but at least i've heard some people think so when they figure that uh the life power has something that finishes or you know it reaches an end that seems a little ridiculous uh when we think that consciousness is an ever-growing and expanding and a miracle of adventure and that tarot key oh the fool remember super consciousness that's the higher supersensory awareness you can have and every one of you have got it this was the point I want to bring out to you you all got it since none of you would be here as I pointed out if you already figured you had it that is everything that you need you have that sense of adventure no matter how miserable you are some of you are I know no matter how frustrated some of you are very frustrated indeed. Some of you weep, I know, and all of us weep with you in a hidden manner, whether we know it consciously or not. Nevertheless, there's a drive towards something, even if it's a drive towards getting away from this pain and finding Sirtis and yearning for whatever next joy there may be or whatever next fulfillment or whatever next perception, which is usually the most tremendously exciting experience that there is.

Haven't you noticed that the times you have had your greatest happiness have been the times when suddenly you've had an insight, a realization, an illumination, a perception on the inner intuitive level, the supersensory level? Haven't you noticed that the times you have had your greatest happiness have been the times when suddenly you've had an insight, a realization, an illumination, a perception on the inner intuitive level, the super-sensory level.

Now, as I pointed out earlier, this is not the same as psychic, though all of us who are aspirants on the whole, or most of us, are psychic also.

We have psychic awarenesses, which again, I repeat, are on the relative levels that we may say the dream life is on.

They are mixtures of subconsciousness, fears, hopes, despairs, hates, guilts, and so on, along with yearnings, loves, and so on. And through the subconsciousness, or through the psychic field of our awareness, we very often do receive certain higher perceptions when the subconsciousness is a little more relaxed and opened in a particular area.

But those who try to achieve their higher states of being through the psychic levels usually find the very reverse occurs, incidentally. Those who concentrate on the psychic level of their being find themselves pulled more and more into the mass mind levels, because that's what subconsciousness really is. In essence, even though we each have a little bay, it's fed by the same ocean on that level. And therefore, the various psychic experiences, and that means, incidentally, this may shock you, but I must warn you, this means that anything you experience inwardly that you may hear as a voice, see as a picture, is definitely on the psychic level. It doesn't mean it isn't true, but it's just as apt to be not true. And if there is any truth in it, it would be mixed with untruth, with your own fears, your disillusionments, the fears of others, or, for instance, if you have certain insecurities, on a subconscious level, you will be tuned into the wavelength of insecurity, telepathically.

We are not separate. Remember that. If we were, we couldn't have the kind of horror that can exist in the mass mind mob reactions, just as well as we couldn't have the inspiration that can exist if there's one or a few that can help project an inspirational, super-conscious level of thinking and feeling. We are never isolated from the thinking and feeling of anyone else. And the truth of the matter is that to the degree we let our eyes remain limited to merely the range that physical eyes can see, to that degree are we going to misinterpret life and people, the ones close around us and society. society. To the degree we permit ourselves to be limited to merely hearing within our hearing ranges of our ears, to that degree are we going to be susceptible to the propaganda of the spoken and written words, which are all in the same field, remember, because when they're written they're still spoken. It just combines the word idea with the visual imprint.

print. These levels of response, we have to understand. We cannot escape them, but if we understand them, we gain the ascendancy, we gain the power. And tarot is the thing that helps to train us into this power, just like exercises on a keyboard. Make sure your hands, do you know, every musician who plays a piano has different hands than those who don't. Were they born with them different? No. But by doing their practices, they develop muscles in areas that other people haven't got it. You know, this is also true of those who type all the time. They have muscles in their hands that other people don't have who don't type, although they're not exactly the same.

So that exercise, whether it be on physical levels or mental levels, and you can't differentiate them that much when you're in a body. Your body has to be the instrument that takes in the vibratory message or level. You have to realize that only as you learn to keep your consciousness individualized to the point where you will reach for the image that you want rather than the image that others are giving you, only to that degree are you individualized and receptive to superconscious and the higher supersensory awarenesses. Otherwise, you're being washed around like flotsam and jetsam, the scum on the ocean, instead of being the clear stream.

This is what makes the difference. And every one of you are capable of purifying that stream, which is your own area of subconsciousness, so that your supersensory experiences will become such that on the telepathic levels you will stop being receptive to the vibration that is not in accordance with you, or if you become aware of it, you won't respond to it emotionally. That's the main thing. Remember, just like in a radio, you can take and tune that radio, to the various stations. Some of you like jazz, you turn it to jazz. Some of you like classical music, you turn it to classical music. Some of you like the in-between, you turn it to the in-between type, you know, the semi-classical type of music. Some of you like to hear the evangelists haranguing you, you turn it to that, and so on. Whatever it happens to be, what you like, you tune to. In the same way, what your basic emotions are vibrating in harmony with, this is what you will be attuned to.

And the tarot is what helps you to change the vibratory levels of each station inside of you. And according to Qabalah, remember, the 22 stations of the 22 major tarot keys, the rest have a different area. And each one of these vibratory stations, they really involve the ability and the capacity to tune into a state of being instead of a state of being a response mechanism.

And to that degree, do you become receptive to the higher of master wisdom emanations. you are not even remotely open to master wisdom vibratory levels if you're still open on that same beam to levels that make you the deluded type of being full of hate full of separatism full of opinionated self-satisfaction or full of escapism. That's the zombie one that we mentioned, remember.

So keep this in mind then. If you see psychically, it's interesting. It might be true, it might be untrue, and it might be a mixture. If you hear psychically, it's interesting. It might be true, it might be untrue, it might be a mixture. More often, incidentally, it's a mixture. Almost always, it's a mixture. Let's say 99 and 9 tenths of the time.

It is a very negative mixture.

But when you learn to get your consciousness trained, to grab those vibrational levels of the tarot keys, and as you study the tarot, of course, this helps you to do it, you get to the point where you can become anything and everything you need to. in other words, that whole broadcast of the masters of wisdom, of the higher knowing, the higher seeing, the higher feeling, of the raptures and ecstasies, of the unity of life, of the raptures and ecstasies, of the miracle of beingness, these start sweeping in more and more. And this, I know many of you have already been experiencing, and you will experience it more as we keep working together. Some of you have not yet arrived at it, but I say to you and I say to you from the depth of my heart that every single one of you can know rapture and miracle and ecstasy whenever you need it to help you through any problem and remember too I do not say you'll have no problems but believe me your life would be empty without problems to reach towards and overcome for the next higher glory to experience Remember this then, for today's talk.

Highlight the basic idea that what you want more than anything in life, because you do, whether you know it consciously or not, what you want more than anything in life is to be able to stay so attuned with your self-conscious mind to the supersensory vibratory levels that whenever the other levels, the lower levels come in, you can recognize them for what they are. You can throw your love into them, transmute them, and send them back out into the world and be doing your share for the evolution of humanity through your own supersensory powers, aside from whatever you do in other ways, which you would do also. And this makes your living far more meaningful, doesn't it? Go out and make it more meaningful, please.
