The title of our talk for this morning is The Divine Hierarchy in Qabalah.

Now, the word hierarchy is a very interesting word in itself. Certainly most of us are familiar with it. We have heard it in relation to occultism. and we've heard it perhaps in relation to many schools of occultism, the word hierarchy.

And, of course, in itself, it seems to tell what it means, though those of us who are not familiar with Latin cannot get the full implications of the meanings, and even if we know Latin, there are subtleties involved.

But basically, and certainly in Qabalah, the word hierarchy, has to do with the different grades of evolution that exist from the very highest to the very lowest, or perhaps we can put it in another way, from the most rapid to the least rapid vibratory levels of being. or we can put it another way, from the capacity to have the most expanded consciousness to the most limited consciousness.

And we can even put it in other ways, expressing in and through certain forms from that which is perhaps, should we say, a portion of all form to that which has the most simple form.

Now, in practical terms, as far as human beings are concerned, functioning on the physical plane, we can think of the portions of the hierarchy that are immediately meaningful and important to us.

In relation to that, at least a part of that which we heard from the reading in the Bible and that is where we are told that man has been given dominion over that which flies that which swims that which is a flame indeed the dominion of man in other words over creatures that are are obviously on a lower arc of the evolutionary ladder. Now, I hope by this you can see that being on a lower arc doesn't mean being on an evil arc, because there's a fantastic difference in the word evil with the word lower when we think of hierarchy.

Perhaps it's easiest to think of the differences when we think of the differences between a baby held in the mother's arms and the mother.

In other words, the capacity to control and function has to do with the difference in age, with the difference, therefore, in the physical vehicle in order to express the top capacity. now when we say physical vehicle remember we're talking about this magical mystery this form as the book of tokens quotes it this harp of ten thousand strings as the book of tokens says this seamless robe of Adonai when we speak of form we're thinking of that part of deity which we experience through our senses which doesn't limit deity to that but it makes us experience deity in that specialized way amongst many other ways it's one of the ways however in and through the form level then we can usually see a graduated scale of evolutionary factors for the most simple form is able only to express the most simple consciousness obviously the more of a complex the form the more complex the kind of consciousness that can be expressed so that the form while we are within a body in an incarnation the form at least does indicate to us the fact that a portion of the divine consciousness is expressing and experiencing in and through the specialization of that form.

We have the specialization of a little dog form, for example. And what could be more divine than that? Unless it's a Jacob form, you understand. Even then, you can't really compare them because one is the perfection of dog form, the other is the perfection of your other half, your other masculine half form, objectively speaking. speaking. Now then, we can see that right here as we walk this magical something that we call Earth, we are continuously receiving the impacts of the variations of consciousness and indeed we are continuously seeing evolutionary levels regarding human beings as to just how they think and feel about these other magical and specialized, but certainly younger areas of the divine expression.

And as we see it on the physical plane, remember the physical plane, kabbalistically, is an outer expression of something that is already perfected on the inner planes, the non-physical planes, and it is an outer expression in the process of becoming. coming so that on the outer plane we always see the areas of consciousness in function which without question are in the process of becoming in other words all experiences that one is having receiving through the vehicle these are the experiences that are developing the consciousness just like all experiences of a baby as it goes from stage to stage are the necessary experiences needed to bring that baby to adulthood and to the fullest ability and capacity to have dominion over itself and over its environment in the same manner when we use the terminology divine hierarchy we are talking really not so much about something other than than what is observable on the physical plane.

We are only talking about something that goes beyond our ability to see or be aware of through form at this point.

So that the divine hierarchy does not exclude physical form. The divine hierarchy in Qabalah is understood to be that hierarchy which includes physical form and also goes beyond it. It's like saying, in another way, God is both within and beyond at the same time.

In that way, we don't make the mistake of thinking that when we are meditating on the principles of the divine hierarchy that we have to be meditating on or thinking about something something that is more highly evolved than anything or anybody could be in and through form. Indeed, the entire initiatory story of Jesus of Nazareth indicates that the process of evolution in and through form is aimed at bringing the divine perfection of man, which is generic humanity, remember Adam, Adam, to bring that into its most perfected expression on earth, to bring the divine into its most perfected expression possible within the frameworks of form.

However, even though we know that this is, shall we say, the goal of all of evolution, it becomes very important for the Qabalists to know and understand also that we are not dependent only on that which we see in and through physical form.

Indeed, sometimes there can be certain divine attributes that one person will become aware of in and through physical form that another one will not, mainly because the consciousness has not yet evolved to a point where it is able to experience or see into that level.

And sometimes we can think we see something that is apparently more of a divine expression.

Now, we all carry divinity. We're talking about the divine expression or something perfected. We can think we see this expressing in and through a person and yet be deluded.

Let's give some example. It's not really a 100% excellent example, but it is an example, the delusions that can take place.

For example, we do have right now in glaring headlines one of the most tragic stories being unfolded of a vicious kind of killings and certain people are on trial, allegedly having together been responsible for these many killings, as we know.

Now, one of the things the witnesses, two of those who have been involved, have given fairly much the same report, one to a grand jury, although now this girl has rescinded her story the other one on the witness stand who has not rescinded it and yet the stories are just practically identical as to what occurred and what seems to have occurred basically is that a group of people have thought of one individual as being their leader not only their leader but a living jesus walking the earth a christ a christ returned and they were so completely receptive to this idea they were so thoroughly deluded into the accuracy of the idea that they accepted other things as well they even for example were told that one does not ask questions in this group one obeys now you see a trained occultist would instantly anybody said to them you don't ask questions you obey trained occultist in Qabalah and the Western mystery training system would say oh what have we got here that's not my bag that you can be sure of and a trained occultist would use the terminology because a trained occultist uses terminologies of all times and all seasons everything is applicable but the true Qabalist trained in the Western mystery procedures definitely is trained to know and to understand that no human being on the face of the earth has a right to say to you they do it but they haven't got the right to do.

No human being has the right to say to you, you do as I tell you, or else you must be obedient to me.

Now, we know that in some schools of occultism there are leaders who say, I'm taking care of your karma. I've known a few tragedies. I'm taking care of your karma. I'm taking care of everything. thing all you have to do is be a hundred percent obedient to me if i say you don't get married you don't get married period if i say you hand over all your money you hand it over period no that's usually exclamation mark you know all you uh it's you all you have to do is obey now uh because i I have attained the level and the right. In other words, they claim to be the direct representative in a divine hierarchy that has the right to command the disciples or the followers and absolute, complete, and blind obedience is demanded.

Now, we'd like to point out to you that in true spiritual development, if any one of us put ourselves under anybody where all we had to do was be blindly obedient then the one thing we certainly have done is stop all spiritual development just think about that for a moment and you can see wouldn't we? we wouldn't have to make any decisions in other words we've given up our dominion the very dominion spoken about in Psalms the miracle, the wonder whatever area of dominion we have won and every one of us incidentally are winners winners indeed in varying degrees of course or how could we have achieved the kind of consciousness that is able to build and maintain a vehicle that is the most highly complex the most highly evolved evolved form, the human form. So you see, we have been through a discipline, a training. We are winners up to this point, but in order to become winners, I wonder if we conceivably can realize how many times we have fallen. I wonder. It's perhaps just as well we can't, because some of us aren't strong enough to take it to realize that you never have a saint unless first you've had plenty of sinning and the repercussions of the sinning in order to discover that that's not the way to go you never develop strong legs that can walk the path of return until they've done many many fallings and yet determined enough to get up and keep marching no matter how many times the muscles were too weak you get up and you walk again that's how victory comes over all things little by little and attaining conscious eternal immortality attaining a place in the divine hierarchy where at least some types of experience become unnecessary anymore.

This is something we win.

We win this, and we win it by developing our own ability to judge the rights from the wrongs, by evolving our own discrimination, elimination so that again as i point out any one who accepts blindly just because somebody was able to give them some good psychic thrills which they missed a stake for love you know real love is something other than psychic thrill though psychic thrill as we know can very often masquerade for love and there's nothing wrong with psychic thrill incidentally provided there's also true spiritual love that goes with it but here is where perhaps much experience is needed before we can learn how to differentiate now the moment here we have a group of people incidentally as i've pointed out so deluded here jesus walking the earth that they actually apparently, at least it is alleged, if this is true, as to how it happened, they apparently were willing to go torturing and slashing and killing as a group because they were so commanded to do by somebody that they considered as a Christ.

Now, doesn't this sound insane?

Doesn't it? And that's exactly what every human being becomes. even perhaps you might call it a temporary insanity, when that human being gives up their own will, which is really not your own, because all will, Kabbalistically speaking, is the divine will.

But when we give up our own usage, our own discrimination, our right to choose, in order to let somebody else take over, to hand it over.

We are really putting ourselves in a state of what you might call insanity or temporary insanity. Even though here I've given you an extreme example, but the same thing can be involved in any area of life. In any area of life. Therefore, my beloved ones, it becomes very important to learn how to properly discriminate, how to properly judge the actions of individuals to whom we look up to, and not to judge in terms of condemnation, but to judge in such a way as to know what it is that we should want to emulate, and what it is we should want not to emulate you know I had I've been told I shouldn't tell personal things about myself so you notice how much attention I'm paying I've been told you know I've been told this but I feel that sometimes sharing certain personal weaknesses helps us all to accept our own more readily and therefore gives us the courage and the strength to do something about him at any rate i my mother god bless her heart soul spirit she hasn't got a physical vehicle anymore now my mother was a fairly emotionally sick human being her complex organism was just a little too much for her and so i'd say her neuroses was more than extreme and so she there was certain scenes occasionally that took place which were infinitely less than beautiful now i mean and i am understating the fact now there would be uh these scenes incidentally were quite regular the neuroses were so intense it wasn't mild the good extreme that it wasn't an occasional thing either it was quite consistent between the periods of wisdom and beauty which also she certainly did have and has in her soul now when she would go into some of these terrible horrible neurotic spells and as as I said they were often.

I remember as a child, I didn't live with her very much, and that's another story again which I probably will not tell you about, through the childhood, but there were a couple of periods where I did spend a little time, very little time, living with her. That was too long, too much from my point of view then.

At any rate, I used to look at her and watch these displays, and my heart, my soul would feel such a horror.

I used to say to myself, I must remember this so that I will remember never, never to permit myself to develop this quality or that quality or this point of view or that attitude. I made her a living example amongst many. I made many people examples for many things. But she was one of my very important examples of what I did not want to be like in the negative side of her nature, which I'm sorry to say was very negative indeed.

And you see here See I'm bragging about myself. That's bad. I'll have to pay to God for that.

That's not the right thing to do. but here though I was a child I was 13 years old I was able to see qualities that I felt were pretty terrible they were or they were against my whatever my ideals were and I realized today all of us use other people as examples emulations though perhaps we don't remember it as well or as intensely or perhaps we don't do it as consciously this i don't know but it is a principle that we utilize everyone is a teacher to us if we permit them to be and so we should love all and incidentally we should especially love and be grateful to those who we have been able to use as something we don't want to be like if those qualities were unbeautiful indeed and this perhaps is what might make the difference between a negative and a positive response to the impacts of life however also about that same time i was reaching the age where all female creatures or most female creatures become a little more interested in their appearance.

And my older sister, who was four and a half years older than I, had reached the point where her complexion was as radiant as the sun, just that it was so beautiful and perfect and shiny. And at age 13, mine was not.

Now, it wasn't horrible. Let's say from my point of view it was horrible, because certainly hers, in comparison, the beauty of it. so I read an advertisement about palm olive soap and according to the advertisement if you get that soap and you use it every day twice a day and you use up you know you work up the suds very good and you use it so long ah the beauty the magnificence the radiance etc well we were very very very very poor now that's an understatement that's how poor we were in fact we lived in the ghetto and my mother used to route the landlord very often when he'd come for rent she'd start screaming at him about the cracks in the walls and the ceilings that she was going to sue him if it hit our heads and then chase the poor man off because we didn't have money for the rent it was a sort of clever i guess an interesting experience indeed at any rate every penny was very precious thing every single penny mind you but i managed somehow or other to collect enough pennies to buy a bar of palm olive soap and i can't begin to tell you the magic and the anticipation i felt taking that little bar of soap home because now at last ah i had the means to have a glorious, radiant, glowing complexion as beautiful as my sister Ojali's.

So I went to work with the soap.

And I read the directions carefully and I did everything exactly so. And even at that age, if I made up my mind to do a thing, I did it correctly. I wasn't going to take a chance. So I did everything exactly as the instructions gave. and I used it religiously and day followed day and week followed week and indeed the month following month started to come about with that palm olive getting awful tiny because I kept it safely hidden you understand fear one of my sisters that get it use it very very spiritual of me you know and you know not one thing happened to my complexion not a single solitary thing and i became very disillusioned i thought they lied to you they lied to you Can you imagine that? I was just horrified. Then at the ripe age of 17, I answered an ad for a saleswoman. They wanted salesmen and saleswomen. I'd managed to help my father and uncle sell a few window shades that were there. Not really, but I almost helped them, so to me that was good enough, so I figured I'm experienced, that, you know, after school they manufactured them, you see. So, you know, and I'd be in there playing occasionally. So I answered the advertisement, and it seemed there was this one person took twelve of us out to a certain neighborhood in order to sell brass polish. You see, you polished the brass. And they instructed us, they said before we went out we had a something like a two-hour instruction which was the thing you did to sell you you said certain things when you greeted them and you told them certain things about the product and always and it was done in such a way that that whole glow of this is the most marvelous thing that ever was it reminded me a little it should have reminded me about the palm a mile of soap but I was still much too young and innocent you see after all I was only say that so you know for a long time four years ago when I was 17 so I went out with these 12 people and each of us were given a block to go down and knock on every door so I proceeded with with my little box or whatever it was I forget with a container and there was the cloth and there was the uh the polish and whatnot knocking on doors and inviting them to buy this marvelous brass polish that just made your brass shining gold and new took everything it cleaned it just magnificently you see and uh after i got through telling each person what i did what i'd been taught to say uh it was apparently so impressive I sold at least 10 or 12 of these little packages when there was finally one man, he was a little bit crabby, he'd been taking a nap, and he said, you woke me out of a sleep and I worked nights.

And I said, oh, I'm so sorry, I felt badly. I said, forgive me. He said, you know, I guess I was so very repentant, I really was sincerely repentant, I felt badly, that he said, all right, I'll tell you what. he was going to give me a chance to make up for it. He said, demonstrate your polish to me.

He said, if it's as good as you say, I'll buy it. I said, oh thank you sir, I was so grateful to him, and so with every expectation, just like I'd been with the palm oil soap. I proceeded to take the cloth and I put it into the polish and I started polishing, what do you know, I worked and worked and worked and worked and my god nothing happened and I worked and worked some more nothing happened I became horribly embarrassed and ashamed horribly I was so embarrassed and so ashamed I begged the man's forgiveness I said I really thought the product worked you know yeah he was I think and mollified my repentance.

And I marched myself back to the meeting place. Fortunately, it was time for us to meet. And I jumped on the person who was the head of that group. And I gave him not one, but several pieces of my mind.

I raised hell with him in front of all the others. And he kept trying to say, shush, shush, shush, you know. And I said, why should I shush? how dare you send me out lying to people and I tried it and that doesn't work and here I've sold and he said what you sold that it seems I was the only one that sold any and he was so charmed and overcome with my salesmanship that do you know I was chased around they wanted to hire me and pay me a regular salary instead of the small thing with the commission they really tried very hard in that concern to get me to represent them and I spurned them fortunately I spurned them this was a very horrible experience however this is however sometimes we remain very gullible and susceptible and we are the most gullible and the most susceptible when we listen to these sales pitches that seems to be part of our present society now in the divine hierarchy we should try to remember that that saying what you are speak so loudly i cannot hear what you say this has to become a principle and it has to become a principle that we live.

We should learn, we must learn, to become aware of those types of conduct, those attitudes, and indeed become aware of those invitations to the kind of conduct that is not in harmony with our own moral points of view. We should become enough aware wear so that we don't fall into traps if we're innocent we're going to fall in the traps i said fortunately we learn and it's true most of us are as innocent as i was about the palm olive soap and if you think that that's the only uh area of you know i was told by several doctors i've got to have hydrotherapy and i used to go to these hydrotherapy centers and it was costing a fortune so finally i found out about a machine that you put in your own bathtub incidentally and it works works marvelously, but it was fantastically expensive. Now the woman who sold me this machine for my bathtub so that I could have my own hydrotherapy at home for my legs and back since I do wear a brace on my leg, she was also representing some other product apparently, though I didn't realize it, because she also sold me a cleaning product. She said, now with your with your whirlpool in your tub to keep it in perfect shape all you have to do is put a little of this cleaning product in the water just so much and it will keep everything cleaned out it's organic you can use it on anything it'll clean your drains it'll clean your clothes it is harmless because it's organic it cleans everything so that your machine will just it'll it although lower it's supposed to hold up for five years on its own it'll hold up longer because it'll when you keep it clean nothing goes wrong so and after she got through telling me how marvelous this cleaning product was i tell you i was sold all over again some people never learn especially this gal was a metaphysician and you know she believed it here's the point just like i believed what i was you know in that brass cleaning product i believed in it you see and so i was selling it the same way she apparently believed in this in this organic cleaning product and so she so I bought this great big guys at a gallon five gallon jug or something and I put on my whirlpool believe me the whirlpool itself helped me and I'd always use this and I'd had such a sense of security that I was keeping with this whirlpool in perfect condition with this product you see and I used to wonder why funny it always sort of little scum seemed to come to the top and i thought well maybe that's because it's so wonderful you know and so i i kept using this product because she sold me on it and she herself a very spiritual soul indeed and then the jacuzzi went blinko and it shouldn't have gone blinko so my jacob took it down to the main place and he said now what the so-and-so is going on here why is this jacuzzi going blinko when apparently with it should have lasted very much longer especially the it cost a fortune you know and I almost felt guilty of having us buy it and the man said who well who sold it to you and we we had the guarantee you know or we, and incidentally it had just run out.

Just.

And the name of this lovely woman was on it, and he said, oh, she also represented, and he mentioned this other company, and he said, I guess she believed in it, but you know, this is the eighth machine we've gotten in the last few months sold by her with this product, because all of them have gone bling-go. So the scum all gathers on the innards.

And because the scum is never cleaned off, the parts have rotted away in there. So it was going to cost almost as much to fix it as getting a new whirlpool, which we had to do. And there again, I had to face disillusionment. You know how sometimes we just don't learn?

So what I'm pointing out basically is that in the hierarchy what we have to realize is that hierarchy means people are on special levels of development but wherever they haven't had enough experience they themselves can be gullible enough to be teaching something or doing something that isn't in harmony with the higher principles and be doing it innocently because of say lack of experience not realizing not recognizing and I know that this woman believed in the product just as much as I did all these years until it broke down not all these years it didn't last as many years as it was supposed to in this specific product but you see in the divine hierarchy what we are has to do with our ability to evolve a certain code of ethics that we use one with the other and in other words what do you think the brotherhood of man is all about now there are many individuals walk this earth in and through a vehicle and you'd be amazed there aren't so many on the higher echelons but there are some on the almost high echelons and they're all in connection with the Qabalistic tree of life on a Thursday night classes I'm giving you a very detailed understanding understanding of these different levels and the linkage and the ability to be and training you how to become receptive to these elements and areas and of course in all of our work you are having this training and the lessons which are a vital part of it but what i'm trying to point out is that every one of us are always under test by our own higher soul and therefore being watched by the hierarchy on whatever level we happen to be in so we have to come to the realization that it doesn't matter how apparently high anybody is gone they could be in a state of innocence ignorance in a special place and we should not think because somebody we think highly of is functioning in a certain area or selling a thing that that means that it's okay in other words we shouldn't let anybody sell us a bill of goods.

In the Western occult school of thought, we have to prove out everything. We have to test ourselves because the higher self tests us right down the line. And because of this, what we have to come to see is that if we will want to live in accordance with the divine laws in the hierarchy, if we truly want to, We're going to be open, much more open, to the willingness to receive the experiences that we need in order to develop more discrimination, and we're not going to be so blindly responsive to the enthusiasms of salesmanship. as I've been pointing out in the Thursday night classes, the law of suggestion is such that we are all subject to many, many negatives and positives depending on how we utilize this law of suggestion. And in salesmanship, this law of suggestion is used in so many ways. You know, I receive the consumer's report regularly, and I remember not very long ago somebody asked me what's the secret of your complexion apparently this person thought I had a very nice complexion and I was pleased because I haven't used palm house so and I said do you know what the secret of my complexion is the consumers report tells tells you that if you want to spend a lot of money on cosmetics, you're such and so and so fool, that you're just paying for names. That the best is in the five and ten. And I have used the most inexpensive moisturizer that you can imagine and that's all. I've I've been given gifts from time to time of all kinds of the most expensive facial cream for this and a cream for that and a mask for this and a mask for that.

And every once in a while I've sort of half-heartedly tried them just because they were given me as a gift. But you know, one time was the only time they were used because that palm olive soap cured me of that part anyway. way and besides the consumers report verified it my beloved jacob once worked in a in a um where what do you call it in a cosme in a cosmetic place where they make it and he said there's only one difference between the ten dollar cosmetics the five dollar cosmetics and the 50 cent cosmetics he said it's the name they put on the on the bottle or the jar and the jar and he worked in it so that all you see but everyone in this the trouble is in our society right now the sales pitch is at us in every direction whatever with it is we pointed out before we pick up the TV we oh we turn on the TV we no matter what it is we do there's the sales pitch lovely beautiful spiritual people get all taken in even somebody is almost spiritual as I have which has taken in by this cleaner you know i later i tried it on my drain and clothes and ye gods it's terrible doesn't even clean any of the other things i have news for you i have to go back to good old healthy plain old uh lux the 99 and 9 10 pure to get a little cleanliness going there wasn't a thing that it did that was claimed for it and so i i went and looked at the bottle and I found the bottle didn't say it did all those things but the people are taught, they're told this and they believe it and people get caught up and another terrible thing in the type of salesmanship that's going on today this is the greatest testing that we're all under every single one of us but the bombardment's coming at us from all sides because now the things that are being used wherever we go, we find that the the thing that's used every relative and every friend becomes a possible source of profit so that the sales training has become such they say now this is so wonderful what you do you get your neighbor and you get your relative and you get your friend come and buy it and do you know what happens now you see people innocently full of beauty think did this product does this this and the the other get pulled in and what happens you have become a source without realizing it of of spreading salesman pitch this latest developments and salesman pitch that poisons relationships because how can your friend be your friend if your friend is a possible source of private profit to you how can your sister or your brother be your sister or brother if they're the ones you're going to come and bring in to in order if you're going to make your and deliberately develop your financial security in that area how what's going to happen now this is the sort of thing that can come into anything and work everywhere if we're not careful mainly because such such beautiful people have not yet learned discrimination.

And we talk in principles. And in the divine hierarchy, what we have to understand is this. We are not stopped doing anything by having the great voice say, uh-uh, don't you do it, that's bad. You know, there's a little boy, his grandmother, wanting him to grow up to have a fine conscience and to understand right from wrong, the grandmother took him aside and said, look, people aren't as aware as they ought to be. Every one of us has a still, small voice inside of us that speaks to us, this still, small voice. It speaks to us and keeps us from doing something wrong. And if you learn to listen for that still, small voice, said the grandmother, you will find that it will keep you from doing something wrong. and that still small voice is your conscience and the little boy said oh you know that sounds exciting and so um he thought and thought for it listened for the still small voice and then that night when his mother was putting him to bed he suddenly started to get all excited and he said oh mommy mommy he said it's true it's true what grandmother told me is true i listened and listened and I heard the still small voice and she said well what did it say he said well it didn't exactly say anything but right here in my tummy it growled laughter laughter laughter laughter laughter let us hope that we will learn to hear the growl whenever we are being exposed to anything that will damage our ability to have that pure love one for the other let us realize that the tests are going to be brought to us everywhere let us realize that we are being watched at all times not with a spyglass you know a bunch of spies you know with a psychic radar radar, because the divine hierarchy watches in a different way. It watches to see how pure the light and vibration have become, the purity of love, one for the other, of never permitting anything to poison our aspiration, our relationships. And when that light within within ourselves becomes pure enough, that's when we are passing the tests that bring us from one level of the hierarchy to the next.

In other words, we are under initiatory processes, and during initiatory processes we are very, very, very much more apt. There are going to be more times and opportunities to be presented with these various temptations, these fabulous sales pitches and they're apt to come from people that we think very highly of who themselves are deluded and we think they shouldn't be because they've achieved this high state but remember no one has achieved a state of utter perfection and everybody can have areas of delusion even including yours truly as i just pointed out look how much faith i had in a product that was absolutely no good for so long until it wrecked my whirlpool.

And had I been pulled into the business of selling, I would have done just the same with that as I did with that brass polish. At any rate, here in our temple, along with Jesus, we want to say to you, whatever it is you do outside it is important though nobody is going to stop you from it it is important to your growth whatever you do in this temple is all just as important because you take your own temple the builders of the adytum is the adytum in your heart from here we're supposed to take it out take it out with us and we should try to learn and to be very careful what is going to be damaging because you would not have been guided here to this temple if you were not under an initiatory process right now where you are being given the opportunity of going from whatever level you're on to the next but we do not make the next level whatever level we happen to be on until we become truly pure in the area of opportunity that we're in and here in our work I will I want you to know that though that you will possibly not find anywhere on the planet those who are responsible for its purity which means who which means the grand chapter of which I am the supreme chief you will not find perhaps anywhere on this chapter a greater purity but that doesn't mean that many people representing it might not be in their state of great enticing charm over products because of bad discrimination and for other reasons.

And even if I thought something was fantastic in the way of thinking or doing, if it was going to be influencing you erroneously, if I were unconsciously using my position to get you involved in anything that had to do with my private profit, I would be failing my test for the next stage. You are all under testings in different ways. Some of you for purity of relationship. Some of you for integrity of the way you are willing to earn your income. Some of you are under test right now for other reasons that we can't cover all in one talk. But every one of you are under an initiatory test or you wouldn't have been guided here. here and I'm trying to give each and every one of you the various aids in every way I can to show you that even if you fall I mean you just get up and keep going on but be aware of the fact that developing purity one towards the other not just here but outside realize that this opportunity is so rich, so beautiful, so great, that we have to be singing songs of praise over and over again.

Please know that the master who's behind the work of BOTA is not only behind what we may call the inner sanctum sanctorum. That Master is here regularly when I'm here.

In and through me, it is my privilege to bring you that energy, that stimulus, that message, that help, so that no matter what you have been doing, no matter how many times you've been falling you are being given both the help the love the courage and the extra discrimination to get up and keep going on and every one of you can do it every one of you are being given the privilege of doing it and I expect all of us to be lifted in ways beyond our wildest dreams before this incarnation is over if we continue with this kind of beauty of aspiration which we share together. We'll continue now with the service.
