The topic of our talk for this morning is the Divine Gates of Evolution, which brings us to the third Sephirah on the Qabalistic Tree of Life, its color being black and its form of intelligence being expressed amongst other aspects as understanding. that's one of its primary attributes still as we've been trying to help you to see no one Sephirah is understood by giving you one attribute remember a Sephirah means basically an emanation an emanation relating to the attributes of consciousness so that when we talk about the ten sephiras we're talking about the ten emanations of consciousness which express as attributes or which express as specializations like ten different rays of the one thing.

Always the idea of emanation should be held in mind. you can even call it the ten lights that shine out of the one light and you would be correct in fact you would be very very correct you could call it the ten anythings that are part of the one all thing and that also would be extremely correct now then then what is meant by understanding in this attribution?

It isn't what it sounds like on the surface, because the Qabalists have more of a profound intent.

When they call Bina, and that's the Cosmic Mother also, remember, when they call Bina understanding, You'll notice that the cosmic father, Chokmah, is called wisdom.

Lots of people think that wisdom and understanding are synonymous.

Well, not exactly, because people can have understanding, but not too much wisdom. They may have understanding about one specific thing, for example. That wouldn't give them wisdom. they could have understanding about several things but that's not necessarily going to give them wisdom on the other hand if you have wisdom usually from the wisdom comes an outpouring and what would that outpouring be understanding that's why we see that wisdom is the number two on the Qabalistic Tree of Life but then understanding immediately follows remember Remember though when we say one, two, three, even that isn't exactly so, since everything is within the one. When we say understanding follows wisdom, we're attempting to put into words or we're attempting to give you a limited idea of something that basically in the divine is unlimited, limited, which we've talked about many a time. But still, we have to deal in terms of limitation here, and especially when we start talking about the number three.

Because if you recall, we pointed out to you that the Cosmic Father, or Chokmah, relates relates amongst other things to the past, relates to memory therefore. And memory has to do with consciousness turned inward.

But consciousness turned inward for a purpose, that is for the purpose of accomplishing something or setting a goal.

therefore when we talked about kether or i think we had a substitute there but kether basically if you remember is the beginning of the whirlings and we see everything as far as we can experience it through our limited consciousness is in a state of whirling the number one the beginning of the whirlings is said remember to take place in the limitless light or you can call it in the absolute uh in the cosmic mind which also can be called the absolute now the beginning of the whirlings starts a process wisdom or the divine father is the term amongst other terms given to that portion of the process that starts an out projection from its inward turning in a sense you might say that when hokma or the cosmic masculine principle turns inward with the beginning of the whirlings as this method for turning inward a beginning of a whirlings it's like a winding up of a clock that is turning inward setting a goal getting intention do you recall we pointed out that the fool that goes from Kether to Chokmah actually is showing that process how the super consciousness is setting a goal and the setting of the goal by super consciousness which you can call kether is then then goes into the next activity the goal setting has to be thought out or the goal setting has to be expressed in terms of what has already been or what has been accomplished like what will be my next step what will be my next adventure what will be the next evolutionary phase and this is in a cycle when we have not got evolution going again or yet remember it's like the in in-breathing and out-breathing of the divine is one of the ways it's been expressed.

So that there are cycles in which the out-breathing takes place, there are cycles when the in-breathing takes place. And these particular cycles are the very cycles that we experience in other ways. We start experiencing them as time and space. But when we are dealing with the basic underlying principle, of chokmah we're dealing with that which is also called the sphere of the zodiac and we're dealing with that which is called the life power so that we can say when the consciousness of the divine since at this point the divine uh is all there is well even at any point but at any rate very specifically we're going to talk about that aspect when this divine mind concentrates itself in a movement inward to concentrate a center for itself this concentrated center becomes what cosmic self-consciousness so that in another sense hokma wisdom the father can be said to express on the supernal triad level the cosmic self-consciousness if we think of Kether as the cosmic super consciousness since its super consciousness set the goal cosmic self-consciousness takes it up to project it cosmic subconsciousness goes to work to produce it and that would be understanding or Bina or the cosmic mother amongst many of the terms that we'll talk about. Remember then though that the cosmic father is attributed to life. Life that is livingness which is a way of reminding us as aspirants walking the paths of being taught how to attain in this secret wisdom of israel we are being reminded then by the very word life power that all is consciousness which we've been pointing out but that what we must remember also is that consciousness is life they are synonymous terms life is consciousness or to put it another way consciousness is mind what is mind mind is life what is life life is mind you can go back and forth you've got to start thinking about them as being synonymous because one of the greatest problems all of us have is that we separate the idea of life from the idea of mind we separate the idea of cosmic life from mind we separate the idea of personal lives of little lives of everything we don't stop to ponder and meditate the fantastic miracle and mystery that is involved here livingness the wonder of livingness itself which is mind itself and what What is the meaning of mind?

Well, whatever meanings mind may have for us, it certainly has to mean, amongst other things, that since consciousness and, or if you like, mind, and, or if you like, living mind, is all there is, then everything that we experience, experience everything in time and space because we're now coming to the creation of actual time and space in the consciousness of god everything that we experience in time and space has to be thought of also as being livingness life and being mind therefore the creations of mind that means you are the creation of mind I am the creation of mind the sky is the creation of mind a star is the creation of mind living mind living mind the earth is the creation of living mind the The mountain, the stone, the wind, the rustle of a leaf, the mystery and miracle of awareness, consciousness, the extraordinary puzzlement, but awesome puzzlement, of the movement, this phantasmagoria of motion, movement everywhere, everywhere.

everywhere. Nothing is still. Everything is in this movement. That's the movement, the motion of the cosmic life. Nevertheless, we experience it because the mind of deity in in its subconscious aspects of self-expression, has entered into a phase of its activity where it is evolving specialized forms in and through which life or consciousness intends, has set the goal, remember the goal setter, to experience itself.

and that has to include you since there is no outside you recall therefore our experience of time and space really begins with the activity of the cosmic mind which stops this out projection from just going on and on and puts a limitation upon it.

That's why it's also called the sphere of the activity of Saturn, since Saturn is synonymous with limitation. We all fear the word limitation.

We fear it to the point where Tarot Key 15, which is ruled by Saturn you know looks like the devil to us and that's what life looks like let's face it you know let's not fool ourselves and everything that looks like the devil I want to tell you something you can blame God for it now isn't that a pleasant thought now isn't that delightful now some of you may think that I'm being sacrilegious I know but if you think so So I hope we're going to help you to change your mind.

Because, you know, God is too vast to get insulted.

And besides, aren't we insulting the vastness of a deity if we try to say there's something else that has created this illusion or delusion?

I think that's the real insult to God if God was insultable maybe God's a little too big to be insultable but everything, remember every school of thought that tries to aid aspirants on the paths of return to God every single true spiritual school of thought emphasizes emphasizes, very specifically emphasizes the fact that all causation must be placed in the area of deity. In other words, God is the cause of all. How else could it be? And for the beginnings of time and space and the full activity of time and space as we experience it, which means a limitation experiencing the limitation that this phase of mind or consciousness has placed on this these activities can be seen as being the cause whether we understand cause or not as being the cause of all things that we experience as unevolved all things that we experience as limitation all things and that's why bina has also been called the gates of birth and therefore the divine gates of evolution are very uh much applicable to the idea of this divine feminine principle because bina is said to be the door of form the door of limitation the the cosmic power that holds all things in its absolute you might almost say inexorable grasp which means evolution is held in the grasp of the divine feminine principle and when we realize that from the moment we would have started any of the processes that involve evolution we had to start through time and space and hitting up against limitation hitting up against limitation we had to experience something that we call pain and then those of us who reach a certain level of evolution once we see how much pain there is we get a little angry and we say by God if there is a God why would that God create life that has pain and then some Some people would become atheists, like I did.

Well, that's because I had only partial understanding.

We are being evolved towards a fuller understanding.

But you see, if we can only train ourselves to remember that the one life is the all, and that your life is not separate from that all, that the gates of evolution are guiding you as a part of this one life into the experience the fulfillment of the goal that has been set by what we can call your higher self if we can remember that all of the experiences we have including the experience of pain do not belong to what we think is our eye but belongs to our true eternal eye it will help us a little more perhaps to feel comfort when we're going through certain stages in our evolution that bring inevitable pain at times how could you know fulfillment you see the ability to know the pair of opposites is the principle of the cosmic mother which means the ability and capacity to evolve self-consciousness awareness of this and that which finally gives you a mind that's one with the fathers as well as the mothers this necessitates going through experience that appears to be time and space yet also every mystic that has experienced the higher levels reports to us that time and space on the higher levels of divine awareness are not what they seem to be when we are fixated in this area of self-experience time and space seem very real indeed but we are told by every true spiritual school of thought that in the experience of the divine when we have the higher and deeper illumination we discover that there is a level of consciousness in which time and space as we know it does not exist and And in the Bible, remember how often we hear that to God one moment can be as a thousand years and a thousand years as the blink of an eye.

In other words, there's the ability to contract or expand the experience of time and space because the divine mind and those who have arrived at that level, they are not slaves anymore to time and space. They have evolved to the point where time and space, though, you cannot do away with the illusion. But once you know what it is and what the purpose of it is, you do away with the delusion, and that takes understanding. That's one of the many reasons understanding is given to this particular aspect of the tree of life.

the the pains the feelings of inferiority the insecurities the anxieties that we all experience at different times in our lives and sometimes too many times all of these are experiences that come from our identification of our true selfhood with that portion of us which is in a continuous state of change that is the personality we take our personality as something which is fixed and we therefore bring pains to ourselves that are really utterly utterly unnecessary, finally, but they are necessary in the stages of evolution before we have managed to arrive at the capacity to expand our present moment. Therefore, think for a moment what it means when we say the future is one of the aspects assigned to Bina. Now, Bina is the actual cause of the experience of time and space itself. That is the cause before we put the cause on to hook mother cosmic father and that's the cause before we place it on get there the super conscious deity and then then that's the cause until we put it into the ein soft hour which is the absolute which we cannot hope to comprehend so you see how cleverly we've taking care of everything and how easily we can continue to blame god however remember if we look out at life and if we analyze what different people are like we come to recognize the fact sooner or later that different people have a different kind of time and space you know we all think we have the same time and space but we really don't that's part of our delusion due to the illusion when you're in love your time just is going so fast you can't bear it you say oh now you're going to leave me beloved but you only just came how can you be going but when you're with somebody that you hate and worse still somebody that bores you that's time drags and drags and then we even have the expression oh what a drag it's a drag so you can see right here look at the different times we have depending on what consciousness is experiencing in the same way look what we do with space now a consciousness that has arrived at a certain mountaintop remember from one mountaintop the fool is looking off towards another mountaintop you see there are different levels of mountaintops but a person standing on one mountaintop looking out into the valley has a larger space of self consciousness you can see this because you can see cars coming from way out that direction as as well as the opposite direction.

But the person in the valley, especially the one in the cars, he has a very much smaller space right now.

He can't see another car approaching him.

Sometimes it may be around the corner, you know, and suppose you didn't know that there were higher views.

You would figure that which is around the corner can never be known by anybody or anything.

You know, it's something that will be known in the future when we get there. But the person looking from the mountaintop can see, ye gods, this lunatic is going 60 miles an hour and that madman is going 65 miles an hour, each on the road where they're not paying attention to their side of the road, and I can see that they're going to go boom.

Now that's what the person, and so that that person's space and that person's future was not future it was now time and space for the person watching from the mountain from that higher from the high hill was a now can you you see this isn't that a simple demonstration and this is true of consciousness itself we all sit here together or we go out into life we interact with each other and we're under the delusion that everybody is where is in the same time and space but they are not we're all in different levels of evolution of course spiritual aspirants on the whole are relatively closer together in this time-space area then closer together with each other than they are with those that are just pure materialists working on the mass mind level there's a vaster change the people in the mass mind level to them that car around the corner they can't see it they know no one can see it after all you nobody can see through a mountain can they now and you have to see through a mountain to be able to see the other car coming around like a lunatic you know and then you know don't realize you're being an imbecile moving up so we accept these illusions we are deluded thereby and we take actions that are very destructive you see, because here the one on the mountaintop could see this is going to end in destruction because there they are coming at each other whereas the people in the cars aren't at all aware of the same thing and then the people in the car could say my, what kind of magical thing have they got that made them able to see all the way through mountains you know they interpret it differently wouldn't they well that's what we do i think the analogy is fairly good nothing is ever perfect but to try to help you to see that time and space are not what they seem now that doesn't mean that we don't experience them as very real things believe me when time drags and drags because of some sorrow or some terror and fear is very real to us we are not saying that the heart doesn't go through anguish the illusion of time and space and having to live through it is real because this is how evolution takes place it cannot take place in any other way obviously consciousness can grow and evolve only through experiencing experiencing Experiencing, experiencing.

And in order to experience, you have to have a time and space to have the experiences in.

But this time and space is not what it seems. It isn't the reality we think it is. But it has a certain reality for us because we cannot avoid having our experiences in and through time and space due to the fact that we are part of the total life power of the cosmic father and we're part of the evolving forms and consciousness projected, given birth to by the cosmic mother. We therefore have to go through these experiences. But think of what a difference it makes to go through experiences where you can correct yourself as to the reality. as against when you're lost in the delusion and think that the reality is the limitation of the time and space. When you know, for example, that you are being grown, that you are being evolved within an experience of time and space, in order to become a more and more enlarged, expanded consciousness, in order to have a larger area of time and space under your control, in order to be able to get up onto those hilltops more and more at will.

When you know this, even those points in your life that are painful or relatively painful are not painful in the same way anymore. and that's why in the book of tokens in the final chapter, Epilogus the divine says not thine but mine is your body not thine but mine is the path for me and me only is thy body built for me and me only and i am the builder see we're builders of the adytum which means what which means that when we arrive at a certain stage age in evolution where we can start correcting ourselves when we can stop identifying our true selfhood with the body where we stop where we start correcting ourselves as to even where the body comes from what the body is and is not and who the body belongs to or what the body belongs belongs to, when we can keep correcting ourselves, we discover an entire new dimension of experience.

We are really getting closer to some very vital goals. Certainly, the understanding of life, the understanding of consciousness, the understanding of all evolution becomes ever more clear to us and thus we become co-creators with that divine level Ayama you know means the bright fertile mother Ama means the dark sterile mother both are assigned to Bina or understanding because because before the Divine Father projects the goal to the part of the consciousness that is the Divine Mother, everything is dark and still.

See, nothing really moved upon the waters.

You know, Genesis, the very beginning. And what is little realized is that if you look up, that Genesis in its original, the very original Hebrew forms, you discover that it is the Elohim that moved upon the waters and brought creation into being from day one right through to the day of rest. The Elohim are what's assigned to the Cosmic Mother.

You see, before the Elohim there can be nothing because forms have not yet been created. created forms in and through which to have these very specialized experiences forms which will be evolving and evolving and evolving and they will be evolving how they will be evolving because that cosmic mother the divine soul she is called is in the process of doing it in other words you are being grown by deity the cosmic mother aspect of deity your body is actually been grown run projected you'd say oh my god what a lousy job God's done on my body some of us might think so i've heard it so said by many people saying oh i hate this my hair or my eyes or my figure or my this well in essence you know this is what i call being sacrilegious when we uh complain in this manner so just think the sanctifying intelligence is also assigned then to the cosmic mother because part of the necessity in the gates of evolution for us is to arrive at that recognition or to arrive at the realization that the divine soul is your soul and when you realize that your soul is an expression of the divine soul then your very body starts taking on the sanctification of this divine aspect it is the divine mother that is sanctifying is first of all developing growing and sanctifying all bodies a body becomes sanctified when we start seeing it as that extraordinary, mysterious miracle that is being birthed and grown by God.

Not by man, and not by your personality, not by that which you think of as I, but by God.

Sounds like I'm starting to swear. By God.

It is being grown by God, by God.

That's a good emphasis. I think, I hope.

So this is the miraculous truth.

And when we think of the ideas of the future, we can see that of Bina being assigned to the future as such, what we have to realize is there's no such thing as a separate idea, something called future. In essence, that which we're calling past, present, and future are really an eternal now in the level of consciousness which is the cosmic level of consciousness. But that which is experienced as now and which we think of as being past like memories and which we think of as being future like hopes or fears, that is part of the portion projected by deity which is being evolved so that deity itself could be having the what self experience and therefore be bringing larger and larger amounts of its own consciousness into this creative dance this conscious creative dance i've tried to show you in one way how the ideas of time and space are different, the difference there is in the length of time that we have for our now, depending on whether we're bored or whether we're in love and the different states of mind and heart.

But let's try to see it in more than one way.

Even though we may say that the past, present and future can be seen as attributes of these three supernals, remember, in essence, these three supernals are one. that's where the exoteric religion has gone overboard and has misinterpreted the idea of this divine triune beingness past, present and future are the varying things as we've been pointing out to varying levels or degrees of consciousness the degree of consciousness we are in is being grown from a less degree to a greater degree as is true of everything everything in the universe at this point of evolution is being grown from less to more because the involution of deity into the goal could be thought of as preceding evolution. The moment we have that which we experience as evolution, that is the expanding of the universe, we are really seeing deity which deliberately involved itself in order to develop centers of consciousness for self-experience. The minute we see this outgrowing, we see that deity is bringing these centers of consciousness, which are its own selfhood, into more and more experience in a return towards its own center.

So you see, you are quite a distance already towards God in the evolutionary return to try to help you understand the meaning of evolution. Now, it may be in some other part of the universe, deity is still involving itself through and bringing about cosmic dust and whirlings and curlings and other aspects of movement, because everything is in movement. everything is in movement but certainly the universe as we are experiencing it is in the state of evolution where all is returning to god and that's what evolution really means returning from once you came you are being returned to that point where you will recollect yourself you know like the prodigal say oh my god i am i'm god my god well i'm not all of god but i'm a ray my selfhood is a selfhood of deity just think of that now what would you do if you suddenly knew it if you really suddenly knew it you don't know the first thing that would happen is that you lose all fear that is why you were in that state of consciousness when you drop back to your time and space since you still haven't arrived at that total return you would of course again have the illusion taking place that's why all of the masters who have attained they remind us over and over again that the illusion is necessary the time and space illusion but it is benevolent despite what it appears to be this illusion may bring us sorrow here and there but out of every sorrow you have grown more of an expanded consciousness you are on your way back to the one central beingness.

You've never been out of it, by the way.

You just thought you were and you're going to keep thinking you are because you're in the illusion. But another part of your consciousness more and more is being trained to be able to remind itself otherwise and you'll be receiving more and more inklings and realizations. I am a center of expression for the primal will to good which eternally creates and sustains the universe. I am a center in the divine I am-ness.

The gates of evolution are guiding you towards the point of being able to say, I am that. that. When you say I, you think of yourself as a separate individual. When you say I, you think of yourself as something separate from all other people and having struggles with the thatness of everything, because the thatness of everything isn't the I-ness. so we have this conflict that we go into continuously yet you who are being trained to be the true spiritual sons and daughters of Israel have to start preparing yourselves more and more to correct yourselves within your minds and within your hearts and to keep reminding yourselves that this body is not something separate thrown out wandering around in darkness this thy very physical body was birthed by the only mother there is by the Divine Mother by the Elohim thy physical body what about my physical mother your physical mother was and is an expression for the one and only mother that there is all mothers are specialized expressions for the one mother just as all fathers are specialized expressions for the one father when you are able to feel this more and more deeply then the sanctifying aspect of the intelligence or the consciousness of this phase remember sanctifying you will start experiencing it your very flesh will start being more spiritualized people will be aware of it you know how radiant some people get when they're in love well when you fall in love with your true selfhood which we all have to do sooner or later I don't mean egomania, I mean the true selfhood egomaniacs are in love with their personalities and true spiritual sons and daughters of Israel are in love with the divine eye which is the true eye and sees the personality for what it is a continuous moving changing expression a bewildering array of extraordinary miraculous mysterious colors and lights you see we don't frown or sneer at the personality as a matter of fact the more you start identifying yourself with your true self and start bringing this sanctification into every portion of your being the more you do that the more will you start emanating towards others uh the subtle powers that are involved you will start becoming so influential without trying to be, you will find yourselves in a state of ability and capacity to love, an insight, a tenderness.

You'll even find yourself able to get angry without feeling guilty about it.

Now, you think that's not good. I beg to differ with you.

because while we are in time and space which we are and in this state of illusion which we are we have to be able to get plenty indignant at the immaturities, at the nonsense because we are experiencing the inevitable aspects of shall we call it evil because that's what it is unevolved consciousnesses because they have no understanding and because they have no wisdom and because their time and space their center is in such a limitation so that they have to feel they're so limited they have to feel that everything else is against them they can't help it they're going to do things that are very harmful to themselves and others if permitted that's why we have cosmic law which gradually teaches and trains every soul through experience how to be otherwise that's why you have the Ten Ten Commandments given by I Am That I Am to evolving spiritual Israel so that we will learn how to become the controllers of our fate.

We control our fate only to the degree that we learn how to recognize the difference between good and evil for this time, this space, this requirement realizing that even this changes as time goes on but your personality to identify yourself with your personality is as foolish as it is to identify yourself with your clothing now lots of people do lots of people do if they go somewhere where a lot they see a lot of people are dressed up say they didn't know it they'll cringe and say oh my god everyone's going to look at me you know in other words they're all ashamed because i am my clothing everybody's going to judge them by their clothing i wonder how many of you have done that oh damn or have we but we do respond in in ways that are part and parcel of our evolution or the evolutionary level or of course some of us are more developed on one side of our nature than the other and so we may have overcome that bit of nonsense but we fall into other bits of nonsense well understanding when we start reaffirming to ourselves who and what we are when we start giving ourselves over and of course this is very difficult for people to do who have to identify with their personality to give oneself over to the guidance of the divine intuition when we start really giving ourselves over to that guidance we find that we walk in a world so different from the usual world that other people are walking in you might almost be said to have been transported to perhaps the constellation in Orion instead of being where we are.

It's very, very strange how much sorrow we build for ourselves mainly because of our identifications with the personality.

Yet you know, even astrologically we know that the rising sign called the personality stems from the word persona which means mask the personality is a mask that the higher self wears for a particular incarnation then when certain traits are developed via in and through this personality they become permanent parts of the true higher self and meanwhile your personality is changing all the time you haven't got the personality today that you had 10 years ago and if you do god help you oh god help you you haven't got the personality you had when you were five years old if so my god god can't help you not in this incarnation you're gonna have to wait you're gonna have to wait until you can you you are able to grow more fully because god has certain laws that god has given and god follows the laws of the self-laws god is the law you might say also so god is the evolution and you'd be right so try to bear in mind that everything in movement or motion or change and that means your personality is experience but it isn't the selfhood it is experience that the selfhood is having the fact that you have personality should therefore become rather magical the fact that other people have personalities should become magical to you you should look and watch and be in wonder instead of having to tear it apart marvel at it marvel at the infinite variety of magics that that extraordinary deity is evolving you talk about the gates of evolution I wonder if you noticed that we said gates and not gate.

If not, think about that for a moment. Gates.

In other words, the one, the divine, expresses in infinite variety, and that's the gates. So evolution itself is an infinite variety of experiences experiences of which the personality is one type and perhaps the most wondrous of types every little dog you've ever had every little cat you've ever had has had a very specific personality as a matter of fact every plant you've had no two plants have the same personality not any more than any two clouds can be or look or act exactly the same No two winds or breezes Can be said to be exactly the same Nothing is the same and this is the miracle the movement of life is the movement of hook the growing evolving awareness of life is the work of the divine Bina and Together we are the result now when you remind yourselves more and more who and what you are notice it's the magician that is the path between Kether the one the only and understanding Bina that which is the door of form of limitation therefore of evolution now what is the magician the magician is amongst other things attention you notice the magician is reaching to the above in order to express in the below now on on the cosmic scale you can therefore think of of understanding or bina as being the below or shall we say the garden or subconsciousness of god but that doesn't mean people have a way of thinking that if it's subconsciousness it's something inferior have you what do you mean by inferior do you realize the miracles your subconsciousness is accomplishing all the time would you call that inferior your subconsciousness has grown from little seed into an extraordinary number of billions or trillions of cells has grown into organized form that thing you call this body would you call that an inferior thing could you do it with your conscious mind why don't you go try what do you mean that's only subconsciousness please can you imagine people saying well that's only subconsciousness subconsciousness is the mind of god subconsciousness is the mind of god moving evolution moving consciousness moving livingness into the experience of its goal how dare we say only subconsciousness somebody has a telepathic experience all you did is pick up my subconsciousness that's a miracle what do you mean pick up my subconsciousness you picked up some of the mind stuff of God then didn't you isn't it strange how we say well that's just the subconscious manifestation and think that we're explaining a thing away well when you start thinking of your subconsciousness as being the sanctifying intelligence of God as holding within it the divine soul itself as being the foundation for intuition itself then subconsciousness will be able to work more in harmony with you that your conscious goals provided you make your conscious goals something that are in harmony with the divine goal the divine will can you see the miracle and mystery and wonder of what it is that lives you that grows you indeed that is you never again be sacrilegious never permit yourself to say ah this is only a body God grows grows your body.

God and God alone lives your body.

And God is sharing centers of selfhood and growing them so that it will be conscious and so that it will become complete. You're being grown in order to be able to completely experience this. So you are part of the gateway of evolution. You are part of the cosmic mind stuff you are part of every hope and every dream and every fulfillment that is to come and in the deepest sense you already have it when you learn how to wake up and remind yourself of who and what you are think on that and not just once or twice my next talk will be on Chesed as part of our total evolutionary scheme.
