Well, it's time for my talk, and the title of my talk for this morning is The Cosmic Father in Occultism. Is that it? I think so.

Yes, no, The Cosmic Father in Qabalah.

The Cosmic Father in Qabalah.

Now the last two talks that I gave I started a series which will I will be giving for my particular talks which I give the second or fourth sundays of each month as you know I started a series that deals with the tree of life in its influences as they are brought in in order to help all of us gain more of an insight of the aspects of consciousness, both in their universal and therefore in their personal aspects, so that we can see a little more clearly certain portions of this framework within which evolution is taking place from the point of view of the Western occult aspirant that is going the path of Qabalah, which means, incidentally, to be receptive, because Qabalah is to receive. And in essence it is saying those who have received of the teaching, the training, those who have received the teachings, the training, and have participated in or are participating in the paths of return, dealing with the 32 paths of wisdom.

And this, of course, is the entire Qabalistic way that is the most ancient aid to evolution on this planet, whatever certain people may think. It is the way that has the entire map of consciousness laid out in its symbolic forms in order to help us as aspirants cope with the situations and conditions that exist around us so that we can make them the steps, or the steps up the ladder, towards the central theme or towards the goal, which has been set already by the divine will. Now, the last Sunday talk I gave, I spoke about certain aspects of the beginning of the whirlings, Kether, the crown.

These are the terms, remember, given Kabbalistically, and each of these terms and attributions are actually messages to our inner consciousness, which, when we learn how to hold them more consistently, become a framework within which the vibrations of our consciousness can get stepped up to the point that our entire electromagnetic field becomes more organized and, you might say, spiritualized. And in becoming more organized, more spiritualized, we become more conscious of the spiritual forces which are not only behind the universe, behind form, but which actually are both behind and within, which we can experience in the ways that are little dreamed of, which we can make a daily part of our lives. In other words, these are the forces which we are learning how to understand to bring into our way of life which help us to become liberated from the illusions the delusions the snares to become liberated from the lower part of our natures when we say liberated remember we always mean that we gain dominion over that part of us which has not yet been evolved or that part of us which we share with the other creatures now the beginning of the whirlings of the crown which is called the number one the begin the essence of the teachings in qabalah has to do with helping us to understand that this particular activity is not only that which is universal but it also takes place within us personally.

And by personally we mean in every way, even those of us who are not familiar with occultism, even those of us who have not yet reached the point where we are aspirants and therefore preparing to become something more than we have been.

These regulations, universal laws, you might call, they work in us anyway, way except that they work in us in such a way that we are subjects we are unable to take hold of these energies and learn how to direct and control them so that we are unable to say with jesus I am the begotten of god the father is in union with me I am in union with the father this we are unable to say until we have developed enough of this aspiration to become aware of the fact that there is something in us which is miraculous magical and has the the capacity to experience and to express these powers. Indeed, all of humanity, remember, has to come to a point at which the self-admission, the self-realization, therefore the setting of goals and the courage to do something about these goals comes into play. Now then, with With the beginning of the whirlings of Kether, which is also called the One, the Indivisible, it is the universal self, remember, it is the unity.

Within this we have that force which we spoke about as being the beginning of all things. It is the intention that all the energies come into play because of intention.

And we pointed out that the divine intention actually carries the power. Therefore, with you, with me, as well as with the universal mind, since we are aspects of it, remember, everything begins with intention.

And that is why in our Seven Steps course, which is the very first teaching you receive when you become members of BOTA, we have you start to recognize the fact that you have to set yourselves some goals, a first goal and then steps towards these goals because this is the way consciousness works and this is the way we start to take on the responsibilities of consciousness till then we're like infants we're not we're not taking on the responsibility of humanity yet because we're infants but the minute we reach a certain age and this means a spiritual age incidentally we are preparing ourselves or becoming prepared to take on responsibilities. And one of the first responsibilities is taking on the responsibility of setting ourselves goals in order to train our consciousness to go in specifically directed ways, to follow the paths and not to go haphazardly, hither and yon, not to be the shall we say the servants and the slaves of the forces but to become the rulers the king of these forces now then what do we mean by intention and setting goals well we mean everything by it we have goals that are short goals we have goals that are long-term goals but setting goals is quite identical at least in kind if not in degree to shall we say the very goal that obviously is his set has been set by the divine in as much as we have a universe that's unfolding in an evolutionary manner no matter how we examine it we can see within the universe that that something is unfolding from step to step, from some kind of diffuse simplicity like the hydrogen atoms throughout space.

We have something that is traveling, that is set, that is organizing, that has gathered itself together, just like the beginning of the whirlings, the intention. An intention is an ingathering of force. That's why all the power that ever was or will be is here now, which is recited on the pattern, involves the beginning of this very intention because it is intention that gives power and if you will recall, I pointed out to you that if you'll just look within yourself and you will examine how you use your consciousness how you use your mind, how you use your emotions you'll notice that when you say to yourself well, now I intend to do this or that you can feel there's an ingathering of force, of power whereas when you give attention to something the giving of the attention to anything is the next step from this in gathering first you set a goal when you say I'm going to do this or that remember the first thing you do in setting the goal you're also creating an image so that the end is already in manifestation within the consciousness even if it has not yet expressed itself in the framework of time and space the end has already been determined it already exists in the divine mind the end or whatever the step is or the steps that are necessary to bring about the the completion of the goals of evolution, this already is in the creative mind of the universal I.

And in the same manner, you and I already have made what we call certain things inevitable in our lives because of various imagings that we have formed, goals we have set, some of them very unwise of course because we are doing what we are learning we are learning how to gain full control and so we always do things clumsily because we're not finished products on the tree of life we're not finished fruit as dr case used to say and which he says over and over again in the lessons that you receive thief so that even when we do things that are ridiculous or foolish we are still following a certain pattern that is both universal as well as being personal now then this these goals that we have set usually when we find ourselves caught up in whirlpools vortexes actually we are living out previous imaging's and goals which we had made foolishly ignorantly because we've been unaware of the fantastic power that we can gather because of all the power that ever was or will be is here now and it is it is our intention in other words it is whatever goals we set inside of ourselves that immediately starts a process where it is energized and so the next thing that happens in the pattern on the trestle board remember the statement is made I am a center of expression for the primal will to good we must always remember that primal will to good which eternally creates and sustains the universe which means in essence that each of us are centers of conscious workings or the workings of consciousness developing intentions imaging goals and setting into motion certain experiences as a result of the power that is the intention of the divine goal setter also called the divine will now from this intention remember which is a setting of the goals has to come the the next logical step when we're thinking about the way it works itself out into experience.

Even though within the consciousness or within the mind, within a certain plane, everything is set because of the setting of the goal or the image. The goal is set, in other words. The way to get from here to there isn't that set. Set. One, I think I mentioned to you, one of the analogies that is a very excellent analogy to use over and over again, to say, for example, if the goal has been set, I'm going to go, say, to visit someone who resides or is staying in Glendale or whatever place. Now I have set a goal this is my intention my power is a gathered however I can choose many paths there are many routes to that one can take and some and some of them are identical in time some bring you through great areas of beauty some take you through horrible ugly spots with some you can manage to work out your path or the little trip from hither to thither where you can avoid much of the ugliness and have mostly beauty and then there are other paths in which it would seem some people deliberately avoid all of the beauty and try to take in as much of the ugliness or perhaps this is because they have not yet realized that this can be done.

So you see, within the framework of how we're going to get from here to there comes actually that aspect of wisdom which we call the cosmic father in Qabalah.

Now bear in mind that on the qabalistic tree of life wisdom is assigned to the cosmic father so that particular force that particular area of consciousness that sphere of activity that is called wisdom would have to do with how we work out the ways the means the areas in which to get from here to there now if we have plenty of wisdom and wisdom comes from what experience if we have plenty of wisdom we're going to work out the route to get say from here to glendale or from here to cloud 12 or from here to union with god we're going to be able to work out how how to get from here to there.

Very beautifully indeed, because with wisdom we work it well. You know, I like to remind you that little saying that I always have thought is so clever, I like to remind us of it rather regularly, where one man kept searching and searching for wisdom and studying and just feeling that wisdom wisdom was the only thing worthwhile.

And a friend said to him, what is all this wisdom, wisdom, wisdom? If you have the wisdom, what will you do with it?

And the searcher said, ah, but when I have the wisdom, I will know what to do with it because I'll have the wisdom to know.

And in the same way, whatever we do whatever we think whatever we feel not until we have the wisdom are we able to do to think to feel properly and you see it is up to every one of us to learn how to gain this wisdom also how to use this wisdom now there's the universal wisdom that becomes ever more available to us as we work at becoming one with the Father and then there's always the wisdom that is what you might call the wisdom of humanity gathered through eons of time which we all can share when we learn how to touch each other on the highest level that exists within each and every one of us we can then share the wisdom in qabalah the highest wisdom of the ages is shared and that is why everyone who's guided to this western mystery training system is guided because something in the soul is ready to at least be exposed to this very highest wisdom often it's a test because all of us can go in for very deep very intense aspiration and be quite sincere about it but no matter what it is that we go in for invariably this automatically invites a certain cosmic law to come into effect and that is the test because nothing can be gained without first being tested through even in your commercial world You have certain textiles that are manufactured, they have to be tested to make sure that they're going to function in very specific ways.

You have certain foods that are sold, they have to be tested to know they're going to taste right, that they're going to do the job, otherwise no one will buy them. You always have your testings. And in evolution, the moment we have aspiration and we start on the road which has to do with searching for wisdom and being willing to attain wisdom, we automatically put into effect certain forces for ourselves which will bring about the tests of wisdom. Actually, it is always our own wisdom or what degree of wisdom we're able to share with the higher levels that is involved in terms of tests and when we have not yet a turn a attain to the ability to share in some of the higher wisdoms naturally what we will notice is that we are not going via the path from here to whatever goal we've set in a very comfortable manner where you will pick pick perhaps roads where they have things all torn up and detours and you know I remember when I was I had been used to going from here to there from the temple over to harriet b case's house very regularly for years a very fine route indeed and all of a sudden I tried it one day I couldn't get there at all because they had the streets all torn up and they said detour and I tried the a detour and found myself at a dead end and back where I started I tried it three times and I simply couldn't go that route whatsoever so I had to sit down and go into myself into what into my own experience to find out how else I can get there except by the route I was accustomed to and so then I realized well it'll take a little longer but I have several other ways to go and I figured out the way that I considered the most beautiful and I said no I can't take that because because I'm late for my appointment.

You see, here we're dealing with time and space. So I decided I'll have to forego the most beautiful route and take one I'm really not fond of in order to get there more rapidly because I am going to be a little late for the appointment. And if you recall what I've said often, time is such a precious treasure. It is such a miraculous treasure that we have from the Most High. We live in time and space for very short ephemeral periods of time while we're within an incarnation and one of the tests we're put through is what we do with this time it is very ephemeral indeed and it flies flies the younger we are the more time we think we've got the older we are the more the more rapidly time starts to spin away from us so that this treasure of time is something we always have to consider and so I was not in such a very happy state when I saw that here I have an appointment to be always I arrived at exactly one minute to six exactly and neither giving nor taking anything off and here I was going to be a good five to six minutes late you see so this was very disturbing to me because I know we have a pattern set up and we follow this pattern and some say well but why do that well the lord of the universe has a pattern set up in the heavens look at the way galaxies work at the way planets work revolving around the sun look at the way everything has a pattern now you pull a thing out of the pattern and what do you get chaos and what What is chaos?

That is devolution.

Devolution, automatically. Because anything that's organized is evolution. Because it takes consciousness to put it into order, organized form. When you throw it into disorder, you're going backwards.

Therefore, the following of various patterns has to do with paths that have been laid out. They're like electromagnetic fields. Now, what has this got to do with wisdom? What has this got to do with the Cosmic Father? Everything.

Because another one of the Qabalistic terms given to the Cosmic Father, wisdom, is the sphere of the zodiac.

Now, the sphere of the zodiac means many things. First of all, it is showing the order of the heavens.

And you know it has taken untold numbers of time for human consciousness to discover this order of the heavens. You find that all types of form are built up from the simple atom which I spoke about last Thursday night and then they, by number, you know, it says God geometrizes by number each atom goes higher everything is ordered so that everything we call form in the universe that means the order of the heavens is there in a very special order everything that we come across in the way of substance is composed of an interaction of very ordered types of atoms held in a very ordered manner, a very ordered area. In the same way, the entire picture of the universe is actually an ordered universe, and we, remember, are not outside of it. We are inside of this universe therefore we are part of this order in the entire Bible when heavens the word mentioned people have made the great mistake of thinking that that means it's something beyond the manifested universe now this This is a great error, because although it is true that there is consciousness and beingness that vibrates on a level that is beyond what we can be aware of and what we call the manifested universe, it is also true that this very beyondness is in the manifested universe as well as beyond it.

One of the best examples that we can give as an analogy is to point out that when we use our eyes to see anything for example we have learned due to the experiments made that what we are seeing is a fractional portion of a very vast vibration but we are able to be aware of only this very fractional portion which vibrates at a certain vibratory rate or a certain speed. And yet that very thing we're seeing is a continuing line or wave of vibration so that it continues beyond hearing. If you take it in sound, it's very obvious also because we hear only within a certain range of decibels, they call it, which means within a certain range of vibrations. Vibrations, yet the fact that we're hearing within this range doesn't mean that the vibrations aren't still existing beyond in both directions, both slower and faster.

One good example is in realizing that radio waves are going on all the time. For instance, programs are being transmitted all the time, and these radio waves go through us. And we're absolutely unaware of the programs. Some of them are horrible. Most of them are horrible, the programs that we're sending out from our broadcasting stations on this planet, in this manifestation. It's mainly because we're learning how to use various extension of forces within the manifest. So they're pretty horrible, we will admit. Nevertheless, you have to practice to become perfect. And let's call it the practice of clumsy infants.

But the point is these radio waves are right here now going through us when you have the proper instrument like a radio you turn it on and you put it on the proper vibration it brings it in then you can experience the program TV or radio same thing the energies are here and actually they're going all the way through us well in the same way that which is beyond the manifest is also is here but the manifest is a part of the unmanifest and the manifest isn't outside of it now the reason we get into so much trouble and feel ourselves so isolated from other human beings, from life even from God is because we keep thinking of ourselves as being something outside instead of something inside and because of this we don't realize that the order of the heavens is something that we participate in. Our sun and our planets is inside of a certain portion of the galaxy, and the galaxy is inside of the all space, which is inside of the divine.

All of it is a certain way that we experience the divine movement of consciousness. And so the sphere of the activity of the zodiac, when we think of it in terms of the cosmic father, is actually in essence saying to us, this terminology is saying to us, that all of the energies, all of the radiations within the entire universe are specialized ways in which the eternal life force of the divine are working. These radiations exist in all kinds of speeds on the same line, not separated from each other, They're not any more than the top of an iceberg is separated from its larger area that goes down into the ocean.

So all we're experiencing is a portion of something that's total. And when we learn to understand this, we lose this sense of separateness. We prepare ourselves then to be more able to receive the wisdom of the ages, which in part is also the experience of humanity from the past you know we've been talking about that whole pillar of the tree of life and the classwork being related to the past now all wisdom has to come from experience and in Qabalah just said the divine mind or the divine consciousness when it sets up its intention which is the beginning of the power or the beginning of of the whirlings, and I remind you that everything in the universe whirls, including electrons around the nucleus of an atom. When these energies and these movements are set into motion, this intention, the wisdom aspect of the Divine Father has to do with deciding in what manner the goal shall be developed.

And also, not only in what manner the goal shall be developed, but in what manner it will have to be developed in order to remain within the framework of the universal law. Because whatever we may or may not know about the divine mind, this is certain. The divine mind sets up rules, it follows its own rules.

After all the divine mind doesn't do what some of us do you decide to play some solitaire and it isn't coming out so we cheat and after all how much satisfaction do we get from the cheating you know we don't really get satisfied at all only when we follow the rule do we accomplish do we We win the game. I really win it. Now then, this life force is actually experienced in one special way as, say, the radiations. It's the light that we see as well as radiation that's beyond our ability to see with our physical eyes, but we're able to experience this radiation with our spiritual awareness or spiritual sensorium. And it isn't any different than light. It's a different vibratory level in the light we see. It's a continuation. In other words, if you would take a line, let's take a line that is, just draw a line of light that is two feet long.

And let's say that our consciousness is able to be aware of one-tenth of an inch of this line of light, somewhere a third from the beginning of it. Now, if we decide that that is all the reality there is, we're deluded, aren't we?

Now, this is what we do. We try to judge things from that point of view when we try to judge things from the manifested level because you might call the manifested universe like one-tenth of an inch of the energies and yet they're the rest of them that we're not aware of mainly because our consciousness isn't able to assimilate, to register the vibrations that are at that speed.

Now, developing the ability to register the vibrations at that speed has to do with developing the ability to be aware on planes that are beyond the manifest. And we develop this ability in regular steps. That's why our whole training system takes you from step to step in this staggering manner, guiding from you might call it street to street route to route to get from here to there and incidentally remember in the most beautiful manner possible when we follow the route that the wise ones have taken those who've gone before us the masters who guide us and who are only waiting for us to be willing to go they don't drag us you see we have to go on our own and we have to be willing to take off our blinkers you know some of us figure all right I'll go but I'll put on blinkers or blinders and we do all kinds of very extraordinary things however when we bear in mind that this light force isn't just light force it is also life force we have something that needs real meditation here what is life your life and my life which is the divine life think for a moment what is the difference between what is called mineral form and living form what is the difference the truth is it's only in the way it's organized again you have your what your order there are your laws that are set up it's the it's the difference in the way points or spots of atoms are organized that's the only difference between what we call non-life and life and yet in occultism we don't say there's any difference at all because there isn't in qabalah we say the mineral life is just as much divine life except it's latent on the manifested plane that we are able to be aware of and yet if you will think of a being as being an entire line or ray of light let's say that I mineral might be the first fractional uh one thousandths of an inch portion of that line say uh one fifth of the way up from the beginning of that line of light and if you take uh your consciousness say you're another line of light coming or a ray of light coming from a central sun say I human being you're say two-thirds of the way up on that line of light and you're able to participate in uh in your awareness in two inches of that light instead of a thousandth of a an inch the only difference between mineral life and you might say human life is in the degree of the energy force that we are able to hold in an organism a special organization and that's why those of us who at times at least can have what we call super sensory perception under certain conditions we see this electromagnetic field that's around those who see a portion of it call it the aura but that's just a very small portion of the electromagnetic field that we hold and this electromagnetic field is held by consciousness and consciousness is not separate from the light that pours from the stars from the atom from what we call electricity it is just that what we call the light from the stars what we call electricity is a fractional aspect of the total energy substance that there is.

And it is in the way consciousness holds the organization of its image that gives what we call the non-living life or the living life, and yet all of it is living from the point of view of that which can see and sense the entire, the divine. Now then, when wisdom, chokm, is called the life force then, remember, and it's also called the sphere of the zodiac, it is saying in essence that the very energy that we call light force, radiation that streams through the entire universe, the same energy is also the livingness of the universal being, and it is therefore your livingness and my livingness. It is all livingness. So that the livingness, beingness of ourselves is part of what, again, we go back to the heavenly order. Therefore, again, I remind you, when the Bible talks about the heavenly order, it is not separating one thing from another because, bear in mind, it's the Qabalists who have written these things.

Prophets were trained Qabalists. And whatever else we have historically, we also have the trained Qabalists who have given us these extraordinary teachings.

Now the life power then, which also can be seen in other ways that it expresses itself or other vibratory rates that we call energy.

This, incidentally, entire universal energy, this entire universal livingness, is here now, available to us. And as we train ourselves to say I am an aspect of this universal life power I am a part of the living energy I am an expression of this light which both streams through me as well as in an in an organized form within which I am able to express some very specialized ways of being, we can also start to see or to start to recognize that being the begotten of God, being begotten by the Father, in essence means that this entirely fantastic radiation that is of the Father is also of us and that we have the ability and capacity to control that portion of the universal vital energies which streams in and through us. We have the ability to control it and therefore the basic tenet that we have to come to grips with in Qabalah is the fact that we are at all times directing the universal energy, the life force of God.

We are at all times directing it, except that when we are not yet spiritual aspirants, we do very foolish things with it indeed. We permit our minds, our consciousness, to take this energy and hold images of lack, of sorrow, of hate, of jealousy, of inferiority, of hurt, of hostility.

And inasmuch as we do this, since all the power that ever was or will be is here now, and we're learning how to direct universal energies, They are universal and there's no end to the amount that we can handle only depending on how we set our own intentions and how much wisdom we're able to attune ourselves to through the Divine Father. What we have to come to realize then is that it is not only enough to intend something but within the intention we have to be ready and willing to look into the wisdom aspect of our being to get it is much related to the divine wisdom to the wisdom of the father as we can so that we can can more and more be able to say, with that level of consciousness that Jesus of Nazareth attained, we can be able to say that not only am I in union with the Father, but all that the Father hath is mine.

Do you know that all that the Father hath is yours right now, my darlings? All.

Even the sorrow, the disappointment, the disillusionment, isn't it from the rich streaming universal vital life energy that is there that we have taken unto ourselves isn't it from that that we have formed images which have brought about the sorrows the disappointments we have it, it isn't even that we have to get it what we have to get is the recognition, the realization of what we've been doing with it this is the wisdom that we should work for so that we will more and more effectively make our roots you know draw our paths so that we will be able to attain our various goals that we have set in ways of beauty in other words in ways of the divine love my darlings there's nothing that we can set for ourselves in the way of a goal that if it involves hurting others if it involves breaking the golden rule if it involves going against our conscience if it involves going against true moral precepts if it involves any of these things believe me my darlings it is not the goal that will bring us the fulfillment there are some who try to say the end justifies the means this is not and cannot be true because there's no difference between means and ends in the qabalistic teaching that's something to bear in mind the ways and methods that we lay out for ourselves actually have to do with participating in the wisdom of the father and when we do this that's when we have the bread the bread of life because then we're really participating in the universal nourishment the true universal nourishment the cosmic father in occultism then the cosmic father in the cabalistic aspect of occultism has to do with the teaching that your father and my father is the divine father no matter what our physical father is every physical father is after all a particularized expression of the only father that there is that's the one and the only blessed be he and this one this only is outpouring continuously a self self-impartation it is a compulsion as a matter of fact you can say oh how could god be under a compulsion the divine wisdom is under the compulsion of its own love because love is the compulsion to share it automatically and the sharing the divine consciousness has set up a goal rules and regulations for its self-expression and manifestation and it follows these rules and regulations in the same way that we are compelled to follow the rules of solitaire without cheating if we're going to have the satisfaction of the game and the divine consciousness the divine one has set up rules and regulations the divine love gives of self within certain laid out organized means in order for us to become conscious participators as the begotten of the Most High. My darlings then, go to a mirror, look into the mirror. When you look into the mirror, say to yourself, I I am looking at the face of the divine life made manifest here and now in me.

Look in the mirror and say to yourself, I am the miracle, the begotten of the divine livingness of the Father.

Look into the face of humanity, my beloved ones, and say to yourself I am looking into the face of god made manifest in these myriad ways the divine father's actual beingness the light we sign ourselves sister and brother in lvx which is light we are organized forms made out of light you are the divine light and I am the divine light made manifest to experience god in these myriad ways this is the goal for us to know it and be it and share it in every way shape and form you are the divine made manifest and nothing can ever hurt you to the degree you think it can if you'll only remember this you are the divine manifest my beloved ones and there is no enemy outside there is no one who can ever hurt you there is no one who can ever injure you anything and everything that happens to you is merely an opportunity to remind yourself I am the divine manifest and I will respond to this experience in the wisdom that comes to me from knowing that I am in union with the father and I express the power of the father now and forevermore we'll continue with the service
