The talk for this morning is the Western Occult Techniques of Meditation. And what I thought I would do is to try to show you what an extraordinary, almost unbelievable system has been inherited by this particular Western Occult Mystery School, which carries every single phase of spiritual techniques.

Some people have told me not to use the word spiritual disciplines because it frightens people away.

But the point is, in the Western occult methods, this does not surprise those of you who have been coming regularly, but those who are perhaps our guests or haven't been coming here so long, It may surprise you to hear that we intend to frighten some people away, not out of lack of love, but the point is, just like in a public school, you have many levels of teaching, starting from the nursery to kindergarten to elementary, high school, college, and then you have postgraduate college work. in preparation for various phases of activity in this world.

In the same manner, and indeed our educational system is basically derived from the esoteric system, even though those who follow it are not aware of this, the Western occult techniques of meditation and of attainment actually carry what we would call the most intensive forms of training and only those who have evolved to a point where they are able to take it take it in this way that they where they have reached a point where they are not not only able to, but are eager to, look into their own consciousness, their own minds, their own hearts, discover for themselves how it is they have been using their powers of consciousness, which everyone has. Everyone certainly has this. But how it has been used is the question. And in discovering how these powers have been used, we are at the same time in the Western occult methods given the techniques for learning how to dissolve the old outworn patterns and to take this energy in order to release into the new patterns which are part of and in fact identical to the entire evolutionary scheme and therefore the evolutionary necessity every single human soul sooner or later has to come to a point in life due to the various experiences which certainly involve many many past incarnations but every single soul does have to come to a point where that's all can say I want to know know everything about myself that I'm capable of knowing. I want to learn how to be honest with myself instead of having to continue to walk in the patterns of self-delusion, illusion, instead of continuing to play act the various roles that have been causing me so much agony, misery.

In fact, the terms used by our youngsters are very nicely expressed here when they say, tell it like it is.

And the true occult aspirant has to have reached a point where he wants to know everything that is reality rather than fighting for a continuation of the illusion the delusions or the unrealities which we take for truths or for ourselves. For example, we each carry an idea about ourselves. What does that idea mean? In other words, we carry an image.

You see, consciousness basically does what? It creates images or it receives images and by feeding these images, and how do you feed the images? You feed them with your attention and the emotional intensity of the attention. and that emotional intensity can be negative as well as positive, you know. There's just as much emotional intensity and hate, for example, as there is in love.

And so we can feed an image negatively just as readily as we can feed an image positively and, as a matter of fact, even more readily, because it is easier to fall back into patterns of the past than it is to protect ourselves from our patterns of the past in order to form new patterns. And so in the Western occult methods, it becomes vitally necessary to discover exactly what patterns we have been nourishing, which have therefore brought us into a state of compulsion. In other words, we follow our old habit patterns pretty much like a needle follows the grooves of a record.

And so what we have to do are form new grooves, of course. Well, the Western occult aspirant, therefore, has to reach a point where he wants to see, to know, and to change. and in actuality not too many people are like this.

You know, many people who are sincere aspirants, it is true, are nevertheless sincere aspirants only up to a point, though they don't recognize this consciously. They are sincere aspirants as long as it doesn't mean bringing up or tearing up something from the deepest part of the nature that they have identified themselves with, which they may be calling by beautiful names, but which basically would be past immaturities, you know, past lack of evolution. And remember, all of us have to have this because certainly none of us have been evolved or created out of the one life the one consciousness in a fully perfected evolved form now some of us may think this was so and in some strange way we fell and now we want to to go back, I don't think that that is at all logical.

In the consciousness of the most high, the divine, certainly that which has been created or is being created in consciousness doesn't have the time sense that we have.

Beginning, ending, and in between are all one vast knowingness. and so in that sense in the consciousness of that level of being the divine father divine mother level in that level we can say yes all beings all creatures have been created as perfected and perfect all at once however that all at once has to do with that level of consciousness the working out of that image that creation is a time and space series in other words it's a projection then where each portion of the divine mind or each ray of the one divine light goes through a sequential type of consciousness it's more like a self-examination this is where incidentally many of our Eastern occult schools of thought have gone wrong. Because some of these good meditators, shall we say, have managed to have one or more experiences of a higher level where they see this or experience this utter perfection. They have come to the erroneous conclusion that all you have to do is meditate via the Eastern methods and by just meditating along with a few other details like in Buddhism you do have your eightfold path etc but mainly by by meditating, they think or feel that you are going to then get away from this illusion-delusion snare which is called the physical universe. That's from the point of view of most of the Eastern philosophies. Now, in Western occultism, as many of you know by now, we definitely do not hold with that point of view whatsoever. What we say is this. The level of experience in which we can see that time and space are non-existent for that level, the level of experience in which we can see that beginning, ending, and in between are one.

this is a level that is a level of totality that we can touch but an evolving center of God cannot stay there even though many individuals or so-called Mahatmas think they have but this is their illusion or delusion now the sad thing is most of the eastern philosophies have, step by step, brought about the kind of changes in evolving souls that have gotten them to drop out.

And I cannot begin to tell you how many precious aspirants, through the many years, have said something to me similar to, what I want to do is to go to some Mount Shasta or Mount Olympus or Mount something in order to really meditate and achieve and reach illumination, liberation.

In other words, the idea being, an erroneous idea, that in order to achieve illumination, liberation, samadhi, nirvana, all these various terms, the thing you need to do is just withdraw from the world and get up where it's pure and all these impurities are knocked, and then you can meditate, and then you make it. Well, what is this? Think a moment. This is pure escapism. and everyone who tries going to any mountaintop usually discovers the one thing they've taken with them is themselves which is a fortunate the one thing you cannot leave behind is yourself and yourself is your state and level of consciousness and its controls wherever you are so you can be just as much of an escapist in a valley if your mind is dreaming of that mountaintop as you can be on the mountaintop because of having withdrawn there and certain forms of meditation basically do not bring about the things that people are hoping or that they have been told it will do. There are many forms of meditation, usually in the Eastern schools of thought, though not all of them, but let's say most of them, which on the whole really offer a way of escape, so that you're told, well, come. Now, withdraw to this center, which is, I mean, the advice is good, but the reasons for it is not good, and what one does with it is not good, as you will see in a moment, I hope. So one is told, well, now you meditate. Some say all you have to do is chant on one thing. Others say all you have to do is to chant on two things. And, you know, you can chant and you can count beads or you can, in other words, you can fadoodle around in many ways.

but that the big trick it's simple and as I've told all of you darlings so often remember to beware always beware of the promises that tell you it's going to be so super easy and of course as I pointed out earlier in the talk so I have had many people say dr. an Reverend Dan you shouldn't tell people that people don't want to think that it's going to be tough they're going to go somewhere where they're promised the easy way but you see back again to what I mentioned earlier the integrity of the Western occult school of training is such that we are not out for numbers though certainly we want every single soul that's ready for this work to come. We are not out, we're not in the number game, and we're certainly not in the money game, as you can see very readily.

What we're out for is the quality.

Quality because only quality is going to be able to stay with this method. Only quality is going to want to go through the step-by-step work that is laid out, and only quality is going to be able to use these methods in order to bring about the changes in self and in the world that is so absolutely essential to the whole evolutionary scheme. Now then, what are these disciplined methods?

All right. They are a step-by-step presentation to each aspirant of the laws, the principles of consciousness, consciousness, and training the aspirant step by step in ways and means of using these principles in order to gain control over the very portion of the nature that has caused us the sorrow, the unhappiness, the despair, and so on. But you see, Western occult techniques are aimed at what you might call intensifying, increasing the evolution of each person who undertakes it. In other words, it is shortening the time for one's evolutionary growth. We do not say, look, you've got to learn to concentrate and meditate this way and that way. You look at a flower or you look at a rose or you look at this and that and try to see into the heart of it. Look, the true soul can't even remotely be interested in wasting its time focusing in on this kind of unproductive type of meditation, even though many of the Eastern schools of thought have presented this.

and therefore only that which we desire is going to hold our attention to help us to discover what our consciousness does. And so in the work, the lessons that our members receive at home, first the principles of consciousness are given in a simple condensed form, things that thousands and thousands of books have been written which would cost untold numbers of monies and not any one of them as well done as these first simple seven lessons that give the principles of consciousness, basically. And that becomes the foundation. From that develops the work with the tarot. What is the work of the tarot? With notice that each tarot key is what? It is a picture.

And consciousness thinks in pictures. pictures, consciousness images. Even in Genesis, we can see this basic idea when mention is made that man is made in the image and likeness of God. Man is an image-making being because man has that power. You know, now man has become like us, said the Elohim, which is the divine parents. And so if we work on our own imagery, and as I said, the tarot is here, and then we have the further methods, of course, but the tarot techniques are aimed at giving us the ability and the capacity to take responsibility for our image-making powers, and therefore we change our own beingness, and we change all of creation that way because we're all part of it. Every single one of us are an eternal aspect of the total divine consciousness, and we, working positively then, meditating our life instead of going off to a distant meditation, meditating our life in our everyday being, everyday feeling, everyday thinking.

This, then, is what makes the change. And as I said, even though it's the hardest thing, is in bringing about the self-transformation that involves our attitude towards the opposite sex. it is very doable indeed very doable and through the tarot we do it far more readily because again the tarot and then the qabalistic tree of life bring us to that recognition that the divine life the divine creator is not he you know when we chant right here in temple when we chant yod Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh, we're chanting He. When we chant Elohim, we're chanting the Divine She. We start off with Ahaya, which means the One, the Only. That has no He or She appellation at all. And then when we chant Adonai, we're chanting the manifestation of the Divine He, Divine She. In other words, the cosmic masculine, cosmic feminine. And so we start getting over these conflict drives, these energy drives, through the work of the Tarot keys, through the work of the Qabalistic tree of life.

We do it to the degree we are willing to. Some people get to a point in their natures, incidentally, where they're unable to face a certain portion of themselves. They don't realize that if they would only be willing to face it and transmute it, life would take on a greater brilliance and glory and ecstasy than they could ever dream. But it's at these points that people often drop out. Sometimes it's just for a little while and they come back. Something in them, their inner being or their soul, strengthens them and back they come.

with others, it's just too much for them and they have to go elsewhere. And that's why we try to discourage those who haven't got enough aspiration from coming here to begin with, which seems foolish to some, but it isn't. Because you see, consciousness influences consciousness.

And in the Western occult meditation techniques, we use group work just as assiduously as we have the individual work. each is vital now in this group meditational work it becomes very necessary for everyone to be willing to be to transmute themselves because if they're not they're going to get very uncomfortable in chanting these fantastic chance of power because the Western occult mystery system remember, is at least 6,000 years old.

It has been working. It has been bringing specific souls who have reached the point of wanting to go in that direction. It has been bringing the specific souls to the highest levels of evolution possible within this area and then beyond. Jesus of Nazareth was trained in this system. Jesus of Nazareth was trained in the esoteric wisdom of Israel, and the whole teachings of this esoteric wisdom, the Western mystery schools, along with the true meaning of Christianity, not what the churchiosities have developed, but the true Christianity, is contained in this work. And Jesus himself attained his complete liberation, finally, from the ties of the past negatives through this system, the system that we work with together. And it includes every single aid that there is meditationally. We use the image-making powers. We use the regular deep breathing. And on Thursday nights, those of you who come know, we use the various subtleties of vibratory powers, the colors and the chanting of the sounds that go with the colors.

On Sunday mornings, we use the ritualistic aspects. All of these are part of a total picture. And then there are even further, there is the pranayas portion for those who enjoy a more intensive personal ritual to attain to greater controls. Therefore, the Western occult system of meditation isn't one thing. It carries every device that there exists in the way of techniques to help bring the heart to a state of capacity for love beyond description, to help bring the mind to an awakening, to help bring the whole spirit into an expansion, to bring the soul into a complete and absolute knowledge of the unity of life and the unity with God. All of these things are attainable. But remember, as I said, they are not that easy. they are attainable to the degree that you want to work with it to the degree that you want to achieve true and lasting development to that degree is it here available for you furthermore it isn't necessary to be miserable about it anybody who is miserable with their aspiration is just draw up making extra misery true aspiration and true spiritual work are supposed supposed to be a work of joy and it's supposed to be a work of laughter and we're supposed to learn and here we are learning and you know i insist that we do this we are learning how to laugh and chuckle with the lord of life at our own immaturities at the immaturities of other levels levels of consciousness, how to chuckle, transmute, love. Because, you know, you cannot truly love as long as you have to condemn. Nobody can. Never before has this much been given out in public.

I agreed, shall we say, to release the extras that I have been releasing, as did Dr. Case before me with what he released, because of the fact that each of us have been and are emissaries from that level that broods over and loves and aids the evolution of humanity. humanity. And because of this time, because of this age, because right now we have an influx of some of the most spiritual beings, and that's these youngsters so many people are worried about. Some of them, of course, have gone haywire. But let me tell you, we have more old souls have come in recently in these youngsters, percentage-wise, than we've had in humanity for untold, untold millennia and for this reason because things are being prepared we're giving things out here in a group like this which we've never done before never in the history of a cultism never in this last six thousand years anyway let's put it that way I'm not sure about what was done previously through the system but on this planet because we are giving everybody that is ready for it the opportunity to do this cramming, shall we say spiritual cramming, in other words, to attain to far more intensive and higher states than they possibly could otherwise.

The fact that never a time we were born, never a time we will die, this we experience through these meditations. The fact that we have nothing to fear, that no matter what happens, there's something in us that has an eternal stability within and with God. this we can all experience when we work with these methods and many here already have developed that we can experience that tremendous samadhi aspect even of consciousness but when we do that those of us in the Western occult school of thought do not think that is the finish we realize that is just a step a resting place to receive the extra energies to return and to keep working for with the Lord of life to bring this awareness this beauty this knowledge of unity out into the world because only so do we truly receive and hold our complete individuality and that's what we're working on now to bring heaven to earth not to try to escape there because we'll only be knocked down again later to bring the higher livingness right here to look out wherever we go and to pulse with this beauty this knowledge that I am in God which you are I walk in God which we do I breathe God which we do God breathes me which God does. This is the experience that brings what you might call the heaven to earth and this all of us are being prepared for. Let's work with it.
