Time for our talk, which is the Dance of the Cosmos.

The Dance of the Cosmos. This brings us to Tarot Key number 21, called the World, which you see here before you.

and the dance of the cosmos is certainly being portrayed by the position of this figure in the middle of the wreath she's obviously dancing but notice she's not dancing on anything solid it would appear then that space is solid to her or that solidity is where what you think it is perhaps a degree or a matter of consciousness at any rate here we have the representation of a figure and one might ask who and what is this figure well let's go into the qabalistic attributions first then we'll go into some then we'll be able to go into identifications of this figure the Hebrew letter Tav assigned to this tarot key is the last letter in the Hebrew alphabet of the Chaldean Hebrew flame alphabet it being the last that means finish end in other words you start with Aleph which is assigned to the fool and to super consciousness and then you finish with tav which is incidentally assigned to saturn now isn't that a peculiar thing assigning saturn to the cosmic dancer to the cosmic dance saturn all you astrologers Those of you who've studied astrology out there in the exoteric world certainly know that Saturn has been given other attributions.

Things like cold.

Anyone who's Saturnian, we even have the expression Saturnian, you know, is supposed to have an expression where the mouth goes down at the corners very appropriately and despondently. and you walk around, the more despondently you walk around in, the more you're supposed to be expressing Saturn.

Saturn is supposed to give coldness or fear, despair.

It's supposed to limit you. It does, by the way, limit you. But what's limitation? it's supposed to limit you and most people even beautiful qabalistic aspirants fall into the trap when they know a little astrology of getting a bit nervous and sometimes more than a bit about saturn they start the the suggestion from the race mind regarding saturn and from the The average interpreter of astrology has become such that one expects tears and loss and delay and frustration.

All of these are supposed to indicate Saturn, and by the way, they really do. I mean, I'm not going to fight with that, except they are Saturnian expressions on the physical plane in the negative levels of Saturn. Remember what we've told you all along. Every single aspect has both its negative and its positive representation. these major tarot keys 22 in number have been so done by the masters that be they were so organized and arranged so that you are presented only with the positive imagery regarding that particular key that particular planet or that particular sign of the zodiac because by now you you certainly realize that these Hebrew letters, with their tarot attributions added onto them, but even as Hebrew letters, they represent the entire cosmos, the 12 signs of the zodiac and the 10 planets, making 22.

Esoteric astrology, esoteric psychology is contained in the Qabalistic Chaldean flame alphabet of the secret wisdom of Israel. So naturally, those who know consciousness are not going to hand you images that are negative because we're out to help you become the masters of your destiny.

the conscious administrative intelligences so the administrative intelligence is given by Qabalists to this Hebrew letter and therefore also to this key and what do we mean by administrative intelligence obviously it's the executive that administrates that's the ruler the one who's the head the one who gives the orders is the administrative intelligence.

And so here we have in Saturn the idea of rulership.

And certainly we do know that even in our exoteric astrology the highest attainment in the world, physical world, career-wise, is the tenth house assigned to Capricorn. There you see it as the devil. oh devilish devil good old Capricorn 10th house that's not a negative picture that's a very positive picture you're being given here because you're being shown what happens what happens to those that get concentrated on only one level of the Saturnian nature that is those who get concentrated only on the outer you know Saturn is assigned to lead we've talked more about that that's our Thursday class work but you see even there you have idea of something really solid and heavy in the way of words so the tenth house is said to be somebody is putting their two cents in that is more fascinating than my two cents that's probably a police call came by or something at any rate or who knows saturn no i wouldn't call it saturn that's more apt to be tarot key number seven speech of which saturn is the final expression you know in our rows of seven and seven and seven which is the tarot tableau tarot key seven is the principle and the the next seven the final after that we We come to Tarot Key number 14 as being the agent, and then seven Tarot Keys later, again seven, Tarot Key 21 being the result, or even the stage of spiritual development, whichever you'd like to call it.

So we have here Capricorn, of which Saturn, remember, is the ruler. Therefore, the highest attainment in one's career is said to be involved with that which we call Saturn, because every sign is always to be thought of in terms of its rulership. Whatever you have on any cusp, you instantly have to see where the planetary rulership is in relation to that cusp and add that. In other words, that's what you call mixing your colors. That's one of the ways that God gets so much variety out of us, or shall we say out of himself-herself.

all of our glorious mixtures here so you see this idea of uh heaviness this idea of uh of negativity it does exist but not at it which but it isn't any worse in its negative aspect than any other one of the negatives each of the inner holy planets remember is given a pair of opposites in the Qabalistic attribution so that we have with this tarot key a very interesting pair of opposites.

We have dominion. Again, that ties right in with administrative intelligence. Or slavery. Now here you have an image of a kind of slavery, don't you, in the Capricornian key, except what it's doing is really saying to you look when things really look like hell there's the devil you're allowed to use that word in the temple you see in a lecture where we're talking I love excuses to shock you I'll shock you even without an excuse if I figure you're getting sleepy wake up the consciousness so we have the dominion of slavery and here again you might say those of us who learn how to work with the principles of Saturn this Tarot key are certainly going to work at expressing the positive side of it which is shown here in the imagery of the Tarot key rather than the negative side of it, which is bondage, bondage slavery. Now, we all know that we've come through experiences, every one of us has had to come through experiences, where we've been enslaved by emotions, attitudes.

attitudes, we've been in bondage to our own concepts, to conditions, situations.

We've been in bondage to people who have been the type of people that devolve us instead of help us to evolve, and don't think that doesn't happen, because it does. all evolution goes up and down but for a true cabalistic initiate the down cycles are under your administrative control so that instead of devolving what you're doing is entering into a a state of inner understanding, analysis, less activity in one area of your nature in order to bring about the development or the beginnings or to get up a good running head of steam, you might say, for your next up. So when you use your downs positively, these downs do not have to be filled with the tears, the sorrow, unhappinesses, the bondage, but we all have to go through it before we realize that it's very important to stop it.

In other words, only those who've been in bondage start yearning for freedom, and only those who've been in bondage start realizing how to value freedom. But what is freedom? You see, to the Qabalistic initiate, freedom is not what it is to the average thinker because to the Qabalistic initiate freedom is not license to do as you please.

To the Qabalistic initiate true freedom is the freedom to accept your responsibilities.

Now, think about that for a minute.

When you try to reject them, look like the persons across the street who abandoned the kitten.

Rejecting, they took on a responsibility, then abandoned it. And this is cruel, very cruel. And there are all kinds of responsibilities. When we abandon them, thinking we're free to do so, what we've done is place extra chains of bondage around our neck.

because that we're here to learn many things to become true administrative intelligences to not only become that but to gain true dominion and what is there to gain dominion of there's only one reality that reality is awareness that reality is mind that reality is livingness of mind or you can call it consciousness they're all interacted well I like to use several terms so that if one doesn't hit you perhaps the other one will consciousness so what is it that we have to gain dominion over consciousness what can put us into bondage the failure to use our administrative powers the failure to rule over our consciousness in the ways that are in accordance with law now what does a dancer got to do with this everything do you think a dance is a haphazard thing have you ever heard the word choreographer a choreographer is a nice fancy word for the one who forms or shapes a dance where at this part of the music you kick your leg and that part of the music you you wiggle your shoulder.

And the other part of the music, you might go, ta-da-da-da-da. You see, but you have to have the proper movement.

That'll wake you up, maybe.

It's the dance.

Cosmic dance.

There are all ways.

then we have to learn how to recognize all of them now those who think it's unspiritual to enter into this type of cosmic dance well I guess we're unspiritual but we're losing out on a true understanding of law because you see what is law law has to do there are rules and regulations you have to have rules and regulations or you can have no joy when you play a game now is it a game unless you have rules and regulations somebody has sat down and figured out a bunch of rules and regulations you're going to play baseball you have certain rules and regulations I mean are they sacrosanct they are for that particular game you want to play basketball you have an entirely different set of rules and regulations but every game has rules and regulations. And what are rules and what are regulations? Are they not limitations?

And there you are. But ye gods, the games come up and about 90% of your population walk around and say, who's winning, who's winning? I mean, they love it.

You know, they're full of this excitement over it. And then there are other kinds of games. the games like chess and there are games like dominoes and then there are games like chance but everything has to have its rules or regulations or it's not a game you play poker you play pinnacle you have to have rules and regulations and you have to move within that framework now what is evolution evolution takes place within rules and regulations put down by the master game player game lover blessed be he dashi because some of the games we don't think it's so funny believe me i can uh i've had many an argument with the with the creatoress and creator who are one of course thank god that way we can take either aspect of them when we're in the mood and sort of give them a good old talking to and do you think that that's sacrilege well then you haven't caught the spirit of Kabbalism it's using the positiveness of the Avta this Saturnian aspect because you see Capricorn there of which Saturn is the ruler is also assigned to mirth and we have to be able to experience the mirth and we have to teach ourselves to experience the mirth the enjoyment the enjoyment in becoming master chess players or master basketball players or master role players that's our personalities you know or didn't you know that your personality is a role player that God is fashioned for pleasure and When you don't know it, there's no pleasure.

But we're trying to teach you to know it. And then one day you'll start experiencing it. You may have a little flash. Maybe you've already had a flash. And then you'll discover that everything, but everything has to have this kind of aspect to it. Otherwise there could be no consciousness at all. if you do not have your pairs of opposites and your rules and regulations within your frameworks of opposites you can't have consciousness to have consciousness you have to have something to be conscious of and in order to have something to be conscious of you have to be able to make images since consciousness is the only reality so the only thing that you can be conscious of are your images images so when the divine makes images and the divines that you know made a man that is adam humanity and the image and likeness uh and that's why man had to get tempted by that fabulous serpent of wisdom you know to become aware of opposites but then while we're learning the difference between good and evil within this framework of the pair of opposites this is evolution consciousness then is learning the rules of the game of livingness for the purpose of evolution so that man can consciously be sharing in the administration and consciously be free from the from the slaveries to have dominion so then we have to be studying out these rules, these regulations which we can call limitations and when we scream and kick which we do, don't think I'm not good at it I can scream and kick with the best of us and I said, and I do but I'm chuckling when I do with that spark of me inside that's at the center of the wreath, you see.

And this is what makes the difference between the Qabalistic response and the usual worldly response. You have to play your roles. In other words, you have to follow the rules of the games. but when something deep in you has arrived at an evolutionary level where it knows who and what it is or even guesses you know or even assume make decides to make the assumption and try to live as though it were so sooner or later we start verifying it so you know the divine word ahaya is also assigned to this particular tarot key because of certain qabalistic numeration aspects that correlate and a haya means i am and it's also assigned to the word again through certain qabalistic numerical correlations uh ate which means thou So you might say this Tarot key, which is assigned to Saturn and which is assigned to the fulfillment, the finish of the divine process, could also be thought of as saying in essence, instance uh i am thou thee thou art i am now that's something to meditate isn't it thou art i am i am what thou art you can say that over and over again and you're going to be meditating an extraordinary truth therefore the saturn that we're all so afraid of happens to be i am at the center the center of what the qabalists call the palace and therefore even in work with the cube that dr case gives in the lessons where you have your attributions the other six holy inner planets are all assigned to the faces of the cube so you have them assigned to the above, the below the before, the behind, the right and to the left but then Saturn is left as the seventh and remember the Lord God said said it is very very good after he got adam into the works you know that was the sixth day of creation and handed adam the dominion and over the foul of the air and the earth of the sea god was in the real ebullience of creativity aren't you ebullient in your creativity say if you pay if If you've finished a painting or you've just written a poem or a story or you've done something creative or built something or just solved a problem with your mechanical genius or your carpentering genius or your musical genius, you know, there's this fantastic feeling of rapture.

So after all, where do you think we get it if we're in the image and likeness of God? So the sixth day of creation, after which is was the creation of humanity that is man that is consciousness that is going to have the capacity to choose between good and evil and grow and evolve God was just having a ball saying boy this is you know all the rest of them God said it is good you know with day one through five but notice a day six that that wasn't good enough it was very very good I guess God goes for us better and then there was the seventh day though so after all of this fabulous what does it mean the finishing up of the whole divine creation then God blessed the Sabbath God blessed the Sabbath day seven and made it holy and sanctified it which means what But the word Sabbath actually is the Hebrew Shabbat.

Do you know what Shabbat is? Saturn.

Here.

Shabbat. The figure that's dancing. Also, remember, the sphere of activity of this dance figure is on the Qabalistic tree of life, the black Sephirah.

And that's the Divine Mother that you chant Elohim.

It's the divine feminine aspect of creation and of consciousness, chokmah being the divine masculine expression of creation. So that the day of rest that was sanctified and made holy, the sphere of activity of Saturn, yet it is from that sphere of activity of Saturn that the birth of the universe takes place. It is through the womb of Shabbat.

day seven of all things, that all this occurs. What would this mean?

Well, basically, it means that within day seven, or within Shabbat, you have everything that's all-inclusive. You have the arrival of the Queen. She's also the Queen, you know.

You have the arrival of the Queen into the manifestation of the divine plan which is kingdom, Malkuth on the tree of life, the very below, which is what? The manifested universe.

Indicating that the activity of Shabbat and we chant it in our word of power Thursday nights as Shabbatai when we're working with that particular force that we're learning to handle more effectively now this means then that Shabbatai is really the divine soul is really the divine mother that all your limitations in life all your tears all your your sorrows, all your frustrations, all your disappointments, have been your reactions to something benevolent and loving because you did not realize that you had not yet arrived at the ability to properly choose between the constructive and destructive or the good and evil and you were in the process of being taught, thought, like every mother teaches her child how to go to that nice little private room instead of in the diaper, and how to eat properly without slopping it all over the face and floor.

In other words, out of the muck.

The loving mother does what? She teaches the child discipline.

Discipline. And what is discipline? Discipline is the ability or the capacity to put the reins on ourselves, to accept our own responsibilities, to control our consciousness. And when we learn to control our own consciousness, that is when we are fully grown up, then our divine and loving mother doesn't have to apply the disciplines. You might think, what about the divine and loving father? I've told you many a time, he's the pillar of mercy. he's the one that's going to spoil the pets all our pets have been spoiled by my divine pillar of mercy here my king he's really fantastically more tender people don't really even know it because they watch the tenderness of the female yet everybody who really knows a little core of consciousness knows that it is the feminine principle that's as hard as nails when necessary if it's for the good of the family and it is the masculine principle that you can wrap around your finger if you're just loving and sweet and you tell him you love him and that he's wonderful which he incidentally is he is I guarantee it I know but you know not that but of course we all have both I mean those of us here who are in a female vehicle don't think that you lack the masculine traits and those of you who are in a masculine vehicle don't think you lack the feminine traits because we always have the the attributions of both.

It's just that we do highlight in our outer activity, we are more apt to highlight the kind of vehicle we're in. In other words, we're a little more active on that side, which we should be. That's the way it is. That's why they say the feminine principle has more endurance, because she's a little tougher in ways that we don't realize. We see her tenderly raising the children, and we realize that this is tenderness but what we don't recognize is that this tender raising is including fantastic discipline you keep practicing all right say mama say mama okay now say daddy say daddy all right now say ball say dog you realize the discipline the mother keeps applying i mean it's a natural thing that she just goes into with it's not that our men can't do it gorgeously too you know we as i told you we all have the talents of each but this is the usual way it works anyway this figure paul case says in the lessons is really androgen i don't know maybe he wanted a little of the feminine attributes that he wanted the male given some credit for some of these feminine attributes.

And if he did, he was right.

Because he said that this figure looks like it has a little masculinity in it. And it does, really. But it's wrapped around with the veil of cough. And you know, cough is Tarot key number 10. We have a very important thing to point out here with these two keys and with their meanings. in tarot key number 10 you see the same four figures as you see in tarot key 21 but the difference is that the bull in tarot key 10 is facing inward and the bull in tarot key 21 is facing outward now what does this mean basically it means that when you're at the stage of development of tarot key 10 where the world still looks like a mechanical something that where cause and effect seem to be taking place out there.

The bull, which is, remember, signed to Taurus, the four fixed signs of the zodiac, and these four fixed signs of the zodiac are like the outlines set by the universal mind for the evolution of consciousness within that framework. We're being shown a framework of the four attributes Attributes that have to do with fire, water, air, and earth. That's one of the terms that's used. But, you see, the bull has to do with objective things. You know, it is the earth figure for Taurus. And so there, in meditation, we have to be, when we're at that stage, we have to be more turning our consciousness inward to discover what's at the center.

At the center, there's the stillness. at the center there's this peace the stillness this peace that we heard about in the reading of that magnificent pillar of mercy this gorgeous expression of the divine masculine when he read us the ten commandments now commandments are laws you notice and saturn is actually the giver of the law in a sense she's even in your charts uh saturn is even considered the teacher is it sat where saturn is they you they even think of parents old people teacher somebody has saturn on certain important points in the in the chart there then it's indicating a basic teacher pupil relationship between the two though the relationship may have other things also they but they're able to teach them something that's why people are afraid of it because most of the time we learn through sorrow. Isn't that sad?

To most of the time have to learn through sorrow. We don't have to. There's the mirth of what Saturn rules. But most of the time we seem to have to learn through sorrow, through tears, through disappointment, through frustration.

And we do until we finally come to the point where we realize that at the center, that's from the uh where we've been working at it through the attributes of key 10 and all of them really we come to realize that at the core of our being there resides that i amness i am thou thou art i am there resides that stillness that center of peace that center of inactivity but that center which though peaceful and inactive is the cause of all activity is the mover of all things so itself it can be still haven't you had at least one experience where in the midst of action and even perhaps turmoil you discovered there's some center in you that's calm and even ordering the whole thing now if you meditated more on that center if that's happened to you even once you would more and more become identified with your true I am-ness and the more identified you become with that true I am-ness the more you're going to be able to utilize all the positives to your dominion from the pair of opposites and you're going to be able to realize Realize that every single day or moment is the finish of a series or a cycle.

Day six, which is not only good, but very, very good.

And day seven, with that core of rest, you bless and sanctify your work, what you just did, every single moment of your past. that's why Saturn is even tied up with the past although she has to do with the future because even on the tree of life chokmah, wisdom, the divine father is the head of what was that's why there's the wisdom but bina, understanding, who heads the feminine pillar heads what is to be, that's the future but because, incidentally from what was, consciousness wise arises that which will be and it all is an inness an isness of I amness Saturn is called the father of time you know here as related to this key but you know also showing there it isn't just one you can't just say female or male but realize being the father of time means that you're the ruler of time and it is said in one fable that Saturn swallows his children and so it is the arrival at the true realization of who and what we are all the children that we have given birth to that is all our thinkings, our feelings we swallow it all right let me tell you we swallow it we gulp tearfully, we practically choke on some of our creations, our children, don't we?

And when you consider this principle, it becomes that much more important if we're going to have to eat our children, that is our images, it becomes that much more important to start making them palatable.

Right? that's a good way to choose here we have the palatable way the dancer now this movement is very tied in as I've just been showing you with non-movement because when you experience that I am-ness you know beginning and end are one time ceases for those who come to me saith the Lord via the book of tokens and yet time is a magical thing and even though it ceases we're going to enter it again the finish of one cycle of creation it is very very good no matter what it was no matter what you did because it's teaching you and Saturn is the teacher and so you rest in what you've been taught you rest in the beauty the delight of this teacher in this piece because you know how to accept it pot in a positive way how to learn from it and then also how to make the rules and regulations or how to become a choreographer that is how to shape your dance of life the kind of dancer you want to be with the the kind of dance, so that instead of shimmying all over the place, maybe you can develop a sort of graceful, so they don't know whether you're a swan or a bird with the tra-la-la, you know, graceful, instead of going into a sort of state of palsy.

There are dances, and there are dances.

And life is a dance.

Everything that we experience, consciousness is the only reality. Consciousness is livingness. The Lord thy God is a living God.

And it lives at your core, at your center, in a state of peace and stillness. When you arrive at that, then you are going to be able to be both that center and the dance. Then you've got it made. Isn't that something?

You can both play your role, and at the same time you have that peace. So you can have the Sabbath all the time, sanctified, sacred, and holy, and all the time, too, you can be in a state of ecstasy over the very, very, very goodness. I want us to outdo God from the biblical portion, and let's add an extra very, or an extraordinarily very, very. Anyway, let's put an extra adjective on it, because that's what evolution is about, and really that's what Saturn is doing. Every parent wants the children to outdo it.

Now, you know that. every parent does so believe then that certainly your divine parent wants its children to outdo it and with that then perhaps we can see that if we will train ourselves we try to remember as often as you can as often as you can that you are in the the state of sanctifying and making holy your rest because up to day six you've just been through one cycle every new cycle is beginning all over again every split fraction of a second and then that as you as you're able to start becoming aware of your true core and the activity outside you this becomes finally a state of true cosmic consciousness cosmic consciousness is assigned then to the hebrew letter that is assigned to saturn isn't that something cosmic consciousness and true it is then that everything we've thought has enslaved us everything that's frustrated us everything that's been a hindrance becomes its opposite when we enter into this spirit as outlined in genesis it's really a declaration of the way consciousness creates and when we accept within our framework those 10 commandments that is the rules and regulations of the dance of evolution of our consciousness because you have to get your moral code set there yeah i'm not going to hand you an atom bomb until you love everybody i might not so there we are and the divine is teaching you with love always no matter how dreadful your state no matter how sorrowful please try to remember try to go back to a little bit of a core and to realize that here in Key 21 that bull is looking outward in other words manifesting the physical aspects fully of the spiritual state kingdom of heaven is within you and the kingdom of heaven manifests manifests on earth and you are bringing it about there is that difference between the keys because this is our destiny this is our job and when cycles come where we are unhappy frustrated remember it is our way of reacting to something that in the final analysis is going to to be benevolent, provided and benevolent that much the sooner if we use it for that. If we hold bitterness on happiness in our hearts, then we're going to be hanging on to the necessity for more pain. If we say, thank you God, it is very, very good, I see now, I'm learning how to shape this thought form with more beauty that one with more mercy this other one with more activity thank you God for this lesson I'm going to work a little harder on my spiritual artistry then we find that we're able to start walking through life not with a walk but with a dance because we're not dancing on anything solid solid because we realize there is no such thing solidity is the role it's being played by the divine in order to drape itself in garments and we are part of it and the true solidity is in the consciousness in the mind so we are going to make solid for ourselves that that which is really what?

The manifestation of God.

This is attaining to real redeemerhood of yourself. This is the summer solstice. And this is the height of the light, where this height of the light for one season also becomes another cycle of seven. So you might say that our Saturn is right now saying at the height of the light of the summer solstice oh this is so good it's very very very good look at all the marvels we've been creating now we're going to go in for a bit of harvesting you know and then we're going to rest so walk through your days not walking dancing dancing. Live through your days, not weeping, but sending out a grateful heart. And truly, the cosmic dance will not be a theory to you. It'll be a living reality, my love.

My next Sunday, I'm going to start on the tree of life, or before the tree was, give you a series on that. My next Sunday will be three Sundays from now. I think we have five Sundays this month. Are we? Yeah, I think so. Let's rejoice in prayer. Holy art thou, Lord, in the universe.

Now...
