The title of our talk is Truth About the Masters of Wisdom. And I thought about that for a little bit this morning and wondered, now what is it that aspirants wonder about regarding the Masters of Wisdom? Now, naturally, they wonder about much, but some of the questions that were given to me when I asked about this wonderment I thought would make a good basis for the talk. It isn't that we can give all truth about anything, because after all, truth is a graduating and expanding thing. but we can give up to a certain point or level. So there were several questions that came up from questions that have been asked me that I thought were probably the kind of questions you were asking yourselves and wondering about. And I felt that I would take up these aspects though certainly it wouldn't cover the whole story. Now the first question that came up from another who wondered was this, do the Masters of Wisdom work with other groups as well as with Builders of the Additum? The answer is certainly they do. If Builders of the Additum claim to be the only group in and through through which the Masters of Wisdom worked.

We would not be anything more than the very small, patterned, narrowed, prejudiced groups who try to tell you, unless you think and feel everything we do, you're going to go to hell.

And a true occult order, one that's truly trying to help you, will never make rash claims like that. Indeed, if you heard such rash claims, you should run. Not like hell, of course, because that's unspiritual, but you should run fast.

That's the point. And we should be able to smile. of course the masters of wisdom work with other groups besides BOTA however we do need to understand just what is involved in occultism we have the great problem of illusion, delusion and snare it's like almost everyone who's in a good exalted mood and takes LSD I don't know if you're aware of it they usually realize they're Jesus Christ and I heard one sweet person say he went out to find his own disciples then under this state this is true they actually experience this as being reality so you see experiencing something as being reality doesn't mean it's reality and we do have a great many sneers. That's why in occultism, especially in Western occultism, that which deals with the techniques of tarot and Qabalah, we hammer at the idea and the the principle of discrimination, because until we've developed enough discrimination, we do not know how to interpret the various things that come to either us or to others.

We do not know how to truly recognize a full, deep, rich, and true channel for the higher forces as against one who just claims or many such who just claim to be this and so many many people claim to be channels for shall we say the masters and or the higher forces some of them because they have the kind of egomania that Hitler and stallion head really and they have this need to seem and sound big others because they have the type of egomania that all of us have had as children when we had to daydream real big you you know, like we were the princes or the princesses, you know, lost from our true sphere, where we suddenly discovered a king or a queen were the real father and or mother, and we were able to use a wand to tell everyone what to do, and they jumped and loved us at the same time.

And we've all had the daydreams. Maybe some of us have forgotten them, but we've had them. It's part of childhood.

Some people, though, don't get rid of them.

They remain children in their inner needs as they get older.

So you have many false prophets, as we are told in the Bible, and this is a very true psychological aspect of evolving personality. personality, you have many people who are quite convinced that they are all kinds of marvelous things. Father Divine did a great deal of good, and there are innumerable people who knew that Father Divine is Father God. They didn't have any question. They even had psychic experiences that verified it. I know of many such, and as far as they were concerned, this is so. You have all sorts of groups who have had individuals who have experiences that definitely prove that they are a true channel, and usually they tell you anything else is of the devil. That's one of the interesting aspects that comes, not all the time, but most of the time in these illusions and delusions. People who go in for experimenting with psychic phenomena will will often discover they're in touch with all kinds of real greats.

You know, not only Jesus Christ, but all of his disciples, and the true saints, and all the great leaders of all the great countries of the world, or this country, or which.

And usually, as Dr. Case pointed out in the lessons which you receive in the mail, Ah, this is an indication of the voices, as against the voice with a capital V.

But this does not mean that the masters of wisdom are not in touch with other groups or guide other groups. But what I am trying to tell you is that it is very difficult to find really reliable guidance in and through groups where the Masters of Wisdom are involved and working, mainly because you can't do any better than the channel through which you're working. And the channel, if it's able to be deluded, filled with illusion, has a need for ego, inflations beyond normal, we all want to be loved and thought wonderful and beautiful and handsome and intelligent. Nothing wrong with that. But you know, there's the degree of it. When we go, when we run away with ourselves on this, and go into those realms of the deciding we're actual messiahs, but everybody is too evil to recognize it or something like that, then usually we get in trouble. But there are other individuals who get caught up in the psychic maelstrom.

It's because it's a force of these claims. And they go along then with what in the Bible is called for the false prophets. And as you recall, we're told also, test the spirits, whether they be of God.

And of course, there are some who think if you test and find that beautiful and high teachings have been given, this shows that this is God. But I know of a case that I've mentioned in previous classes a few times, and this is a real case, of a woman who was a very lovely woman and decided to go in for a certain kind of psychic experimentation in which she was told that her own beloved father, who was this carnate, plus a very vast and great master, were in touch with her and teaching her and helping her. And so she was very happy the teachings she received were sublime.

Then, after several months of this, it so happened she called in two people whom I knew to show them what a real contact she had. That's how I know the details of this case history.

Well, within a few months, all of a sudden, the usual messages stopped like cutting a knife, and yet from the same source said, Ha-ha, at last I've got you, which sent her into quite an emotional shock.

and she said what do you mean at last you got me i thought that you were teaching the things of god uh all these beautiful rich metaphysical and beautiful things and the person used the foul word which i will not repeat saying we and find all that foul and then a couple of foul terms that ddd gd stuff in the libraries don't you think libraries are as available here as there uh and this is the junk you wanted if you want this garbage i gave it to you but now i'm in and you can't ever get rid of me i've just been keeping you open until I got my tentacles deep and sure, and now I have you.

I have you. She went into a horrible shock. She called in these friends.

Various things were attempted. In this case, it didn't work. Sometimes it works. One can unseat an invasion.

She ended in a mental institution, unfortunately, and she was a very nice person.

Now, she was sure she was in contact with a Master of Wisdom, but she wasn't. She thought because all her thoughts could be read.

After all, you and I can read each other's thoughts often, can't we? And everybody reads everybody's thoughts without being consciously aware of it. telepathy is something that goes on just as regularly as the blood streams through the blood vessels feeding all the cells so telepathy isn't anything so otherworldly it's really a here and now thing that happens all the time between all of us and therefore the fact that someone who's in a position to read the mind and the thoughts even more effectively like shall we say a psychic earthbound entity uh this does not show or prove that this is a great being and furthermore the ability to give beautiful and poetic teaching doesn't prove anything either because as was pointed out by this invading entity the libraries are full of it this invading entity said to this individual you wanted this garbage i gave it to you now i'm in keep moving so you see here she was convinced that she was in contact with a master because that's what the invading entity claimed to be, a true master of wisdom, having taken her under his wing and going to take her to glory. Took her to glory, all right. But there was this complete openness, this lack of discrimination. In other words, there wasn't enough suspiciousness in the nature.

You know, isn't it a terrible thing to come to church and hear that sometimes suspiciousness is a very constructive thing, isn't it?

That having a little bit of skepticism is a good thing.

Usually we have heard, have faith, have faith, have faith.

We're banged with the idea of having faith. And I too believe in faith. We all do. But we need to know what to have faith in, don't we?

and not until we have knowledge wisdom do we know what to have faith in so back then to the actual questions do other groups have guidance from the masters of wisdom my answer was as i said certainly there are many groups on this planet who are being guided by the masters of wisdom And these different groups have different forms of teaching and training.

But there is one thing you can be sure of that you'll find in all these groups when the Masters of Wisdom are directly concerned.

You will find that these groups work at helping you to develop your discrimination, your awareness to deepen your love nature they will not promise you any super easy method where all the prince kisses you on the lips and suddenly there you are awakened from the sleep or the princess let's the little frog sleep on the pillow and low that's all it takes to become the prince it isn't that easy you know our little fairy stories they're charming nor is it that hard the only thing that's hard in essence is making up one's mind that being willing to go through the learning and the disciplines is a real recreation rather than a chore too many people think of aspiration as a chore you know you know and they'll beat their breasts and think I've got to do this with myself and I've got to do that with my emotions and I've got to you know they I've got to just smash this or that element in my nature and actually we strengthen the very problems that we are involved with by giving them so much energy certainly we have to might say fight with various aspects, immature, infantile aspects of the being.

But this particular fight doesn't have to be the kind of fight that's miserable.

You know, we enjoy having a good, loving discussion that is slightly argumentative but not mean. Haven't you enjoyed having a hearty discussion with someone with opposing points of view where you know the love and the friendship is there? as an undercurrent. It's that sort of attitude that's involved, at least it's the closest we can indicate it. And the masters of wisdom have many groups on this planet, indeed.

And they guide these various groups to the degree that they are able to find channels that can be proper channels.

And this is very difficult, incidentally. and they also guide groups for other purposes which to you may not sound so spiritual on the surface. For example, I happen to know the Masters of Wisdom definitely guide the UN. Now you may not think so if you're tied up with some political point of view that tells you the UN must go and lots of people think so. it's just as though unity should go.

You know, it's much better to argue verbally than kill each other. God knows we kill each other enough.

And so, as I said, the masters of wisdom are involved in groups that we often wouldn't realize they would be involved with. We think they might not be involved in certain political situations. Well, they certainly wouldn't be in the low, narrow politics, but they certainly would be in the overall influence of trying to bring peace and brotherhood in the mind and heart of the various groups.

We have masters of wisdom active in an infinite number of groups.

sometimes a group may be just a very few people it doesn't have to be large ones the matter of fact the larger the group the less possibility there is that the masters of wisdom are guiding these groups because you have too much the larger a group of people you have that you bring together the more you have the lower common denominator.

Now, I think most of you understand this, but let's just have a few more words to say about it.

The mass mind takes in the largest group.

Now, after that largest group mass mind, you have relative mass mind groups, like people that get caught up in the lynch mob spirit.

You see what I mean? It takes a group and all kinds of psychical research has shown that you take the people individually who've been caught up into this lynch mind spirit and you examine them individually and personally, you'll find on the whole they're very nice people personally in personal things but when they get caught up together you see the more highly evolved we are the fewer there are to be attuned to and to tune to the more immature or younger the soul the more there are so that the mass mind spirit can carry more individual because it's more of what you might call the common denominator because the very highest evolved still has points of anger hatred resentment it's there as a potential even in very extraordinarily highly evolved people so that even people who are fairly highly evolved can get caught up into a low spirit but you see the very lowest type of spirit that's full of separatism and hatred narrowness cannot get caught up into the highest because they haven't got the ability to be attuned vibratorily to that level yet they will in time and that is why in the mass mind level and the mass mind idea, you have situations that fill us with horror.

And they should, because love of humanity should mean love of humanity. Still, the larger the group, the less influence there can be from the Master of Wisdom level, mainly because you haven't got that percentage of people who are able to respond, attune, you know, tune in wise, like with very fine radio equipment, to the subtle areas or levels.

So, masters of wisdom guiding groups, yes. Yes, but of course everybody claims to be guided by the Masters of Wisdom, including us. And how are you going to tell the difference?

I mean, you might go home and say, well, how do we know BOTA is any different than all the rest? This group says the Masters of Wisdom are behind us, that group says the Masters are behind us, they claim it on the other side of the earth and all the different spheres. and how do we know they're not all a bunch of nuts or deluded or egomaniacs? That's a good question. So you have to develop discrimination, learn how to see what is given in the most positive sense, what is fed negatively or what is hit negatively. And of course, most people don't want to be hit in their negatives, and so they rush off to the next place. But that's another kind of story. But we have the Masters of Wisdom active in thousands of groups throughout the planet. Some of the groups just number a few people, where they just make a contact with special reasons for guidance, then withdraw. With others, there are organizations and there are methods of teaching and training in which they are active.

This I am rather familiar with, and that's why I get rather annoyed when some people claim the masters are only with, you know, the me with a big M, as against others. It's an egomania we should beware of.

And even here, please realize, though the Masters of Wisdom are active with other groups, there's a degree of activity that is different depending on the quality of the group that's being gathered and the purpose of and for the group. The Masters of Wisdom are active in the whole United States of America. They are responsible for our Bill of Rights.

I wonder if you realize this. Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson were members of a group in which the masters were instrumental in influencing this idea, though they're still not sure they did the right thing, in case you don't know it at that point. They're still not sure they weren't premature in the and the development of what they know is to come. So you see, we have different areas of groups and different amounts of involvement by the masters in the different groups. So I hope I've at least given you some explanation of that portion of the master's activity as far as groups are concerned. Now, another question was asked me was, how long does it take a master to become a master?

the answer is i cannot tell you i don't know if i gave you a very specific figure it might make me sound like i certainly know the inmost everything this is and it might lift me in the estimation of a few of you but you know a true spiritual teacher has enough humility to say, I don't know, at portions where they don't know.

What I do know, though, in relation to length of time, is that becoming what we think of as a master of wisdom really involves a series of incarnations that has to do with overcoming so many different levels of karmas and testing the truth or falsity of the overcoming, that just the term master of wisdom is not quite correct. Because just like we have individuals in different stages of unfoldment, We actually have masters of wisdom who are at different stages of awareness.

And I know the Master R pointed out to me very specifically, and to us of a very esoteric group at one time, he pointed out that there were senior Masters of Wisdom as well as junior Masters of Wisdom, and that actually it was the junior Masters of Wisdom who had decided as a small group, a minority amongst the Masters, which is often also called the White Brotherhood, that it was a minority of the masters who decided to try pushing the evolution of planet earth's humanity by pushing uh certain kinds of learning like the printing press uh by pushing through inspiration in other words training a certain channel to be able to receive an inspiration, an invention, and giving it out. It was this minority group amongst the Masters of Wisdom who decided to try to hasten the evolution of humanity on planet Earth to bring about the Brotherhood of Man, and that the senior Masters of Wisdom said to them, it's not going to work. You're going to give them printing and they're just going going to use it to distribute their own ignorance and keep people patterned in ignorance. You'll see. Incidentally, it looks like the senior ones were right, doesn't it? When we consider.

And it was the senior masters of wisdom who said, people are not ready for the kind of freedoms that you are instituting as an experiment, they have not yet developed enough conscience, love of humanity, sense of responsibility, and you are being premature in pushing. You are pushing too fast and too hard, things like scientific achievements, which the intellect of man certainly is able to understand and use, but what about the conscience, the sense of responsibility to all of humanity in its usage? You are being premature, said the elder or senior masters of wisdom. and the junior masters of wisdom said, well, we think that they've got what it takes to get there. And certainly there's going to be more problems, more wars, more hatred condensed down, but out of this will come a more rapid evolution for humanity.

and so the junior masters of wisdom without any rancor from the senior masters of wisdom mind you decided to experiment and the senior ones don't mind because they know that we're not going to go to hell anyway you see it's a matter whether uh it can really be worked in a shorter time or if we go through more hells and then don't get our full evolution intensified, that is through a hothouse process of pressure as a brotherhood of man, although the end result they all agree to. In other words, they all see the same thing as far as what must be and is to be in the pattern or plan of the divine will but they have their variations just like we have ours only their politics they don't decide that the other one is an sob you see there's a difference they have a loving accepting freedom they try it and if i'm wrong said this and say the senior masters of wisdom I will be more than happy or we will be more than happy to acknowledge it and that's going to give us a lot of information and so on but this is how we evaluate it and then you ask well how can it be that masters of wisdom who are just juniors could have that much ability or that much power well how can it be that a junior human being age 21 doesn't really know what it's all about voting i like to think he does can go out and have the power to vote sometimes that ability is very good there's some 21 year olds that vote much more intelligently than some 71 year olds isn't that so so it doesn't mean that is that lack of insight we still have other factors that are considered now how long it takes to be a master wisdom is really a question as i said i cannot answer because i don't know i do know how long it doesn't take though if that's a help in other words people who think they can become a master of wisdom just overnight are mistaken You don't become anything overnight.

People who think they can become a master of wisdom in one incarnation are mistaken.

It takes very much more than one incarnation.

People who think they're going to become a master of wisdom by just deciding to use their power, the power of their mind to control others.

They're not becoming masters of wisdom, they're becoming masters of folly and will reap the repercussions. They don't even know what a master of wisdom really is, actually.

Time, as a matter of fact, isn't quite involved, as we know time, in reaching the kind of consciousness and control and rulership that is alluded to as the Masters of Wisdom. You have many different phases of the idea of what Master of Wisdom is. There's the one that's given in the Qabalistic Hebrew tradition, that I always thought was so delightful. A few of you have heard this, where this very ancient man appeared at the door a very poor old house knocked at the door and this very very poor widow answered the door and the old man and it was raining outside it was cold and raining and he said daughter have can you spare a little shelter and a crust of bread for an old man caught in the elements and this This young widow, just in rags herself, pulled him in and said, Father, Rabbi, Master, I have just this very cold house with no heating, and I have this one comforter, which I gladly give you.

I have this one crust of bread.

I share it with you. and she gave him half her crust of bread she gave him her one little mat and comforter for warmth she said for your old cold bones while she was quite miserable indeed and the next morning when he got up to leave he said daughter for your unselfishness and kindness and goodness i bless you. The first thing you put your hands to shall be very deeply blessed with multiplicity."

And she said, thank you, thank you, my father, my brother, without thinking anything of it. And so this sweet old man left, and she gave a sigh and thought, well, back to the loom. You know, she had to try to earn enough to get a crust of bread, another crust of bread. So she started to weave on her loom, and she had this very raw kind of material or cotton, and she weaved and weaved, and it didn't give out. It just stayed there. And she kept weaving and weaving and weaving and weaving, and it was a never-ending stream of this ball of original material until finally the call of the body came, as does to all mortal beings, and she had to go to the little girl's room in this case to attend to this call.

And when she returned, she found the magic had stopped. Then everything was back to normal. but meanwhile she had a fantastic extra amount of material she had managed to weave out of this never-ending ball she told her very wealthy sister about this her sister being married to a most wealthy man and this wealthy sister said if next time he shows up if he does send him to me such a holy man certainly shouldn't uh sleep at a in the kind of grovel a groveling condition and situation situation, such a holy man should be given proper food and proper warmth for his old holy bones, shouldn't he? And the poor sister said to her rich sister, how right you are, my sister. And he did show up. So she said, again, asked for the same help. The poor widow said, my father, I gladly give you anything and everything I have, but with your old bones you'll be so much more comfortable in my sister's home. She has a beautiful mansion with warmth and fireplaces and she has a true soft comforter, a comforter that can cover you entirely and warmly and she has beautiful and very nourishing food for you rather than just a stale crust of bread. And so if you will go there you will be taken proper care of for these poor old bones of yours and he graciously nodded his head and he went there and uh the uh rich sister immediately recognized him from the description and took him in and she just really um put it out never from every direction she just fed him like a king she gave him the finest bed and bedding uh to sleep in and when he left the next morning he said my daughter for your kindness and graciousness to an old man i bless you the first thing you put yourself to to attend to will be multiplied unendingly and so she was very happy and when he left she said ha ha that stupid sister of mine that stupid poor sister of mine i'm gonna put one over on her she already had her gold threads all ready to weave on the loom she was going to weave gold cloth you see it was all set up and she just sneeringly thought about the poor sister and said but i'll do i'll go to the little girl's room first so nothing will interfere they're beautiful I remember when I heard this story as a child from my Qabalistic forebears who tell it from generation to generation it's a tradition I hope you will tell it it's yours too now I remember asking but then what happened to her?

I remember my mother saying saying, who knows?

She's attending to her duty still. Of course, except in another language, it sounded even more succinct.

Now, you see, as I said, we have levels and levels of what can be considered masters. Now, in the Qabalistic tradition, this is what's considered a master of compassion. Now, Master of Compassion is assigned to the grade of evolution that deals with the Sephirah on the Tree of Life that's called hesed, mercy.

And Master of Wisdom actually deals with the Sephirah that has gone beyond the abyss and is called in our tradition the Third Order. whereas a master of compassion is the very highest of what we call the second order. We have a first order, a second order, and a third order. There are a few here who are already in the second order of our tradition, have been initiated outwardly as well as inwardly. Some only outwardly and the inward is being prepared. Some only inwardly and the outer is being prepared, you being guided so that you can be initiated through these grades and linkages of first the first order second and third but the very first order has grades within grades and this is the point how long does it take we have some people just on the outer plane alone who spend a long time in each grade others go through more rapidly because they're recapitulating from previous evolutions. And I must confess I haven't achieved the evolutionary level where I can tell you how long it took each particular Master of Wisdom to become whatever Master of Wisdom he is on whatever grade. But you do realize now there are different grades of Masters of Wisdom and the Masters of Compassion are actually also alluded to in our tradition of Masters of Wisdom. I cannot cannot tell you how long. All I know is it's too long. And yet it isn't, when we are reaching and feeling and experiencing certain levels. There are times we feel like it's too long anyway. When we see the sorrow and pain, we have need to wash away.

All right, now then, there's the next question that has been asked. Are the Masters of Wisdom mostly Hebrew? Well, of course not.

We have Hebrew masters of wisdom. We have, well, the Christians would really be of the Hebrew tradition, too. They're really the same. You know, after all, Christianity is the development from the wisdom teaching of the Israelites. And though people don't recognize it in the modern society, I mean, that's their delusion because they've been locked away with a lot of false propaganda. But your Christian masters of wisdom are really your Hebrew masters of wisdom. For instance, Jesus, Rabbi Jesus of Nazareth, he was a Hebrew. So what do you want to call him, a Hebrew master of wisdom or a Christian master of wisdom? Both. See, there's not that differentiation since christ remember is the greek word for uh christ and christus the greek word for mashiach out of which which is the hebrew word for one who has been been anointed and attained to union with god and able to express the powers of god as a ruler and king And we have many people who have attained this, though it is said that Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ, was the first to attain that particular level.

Now remember, I talked to you about levels and levels of masters – masters of wisdom, masters of compassion. And so there is really no differentiation, basically, between what one wants to call a Hebrew or Christian. They are the same tradition, despite the fact that bigoted people have tried to cut off the consciousness and minds and hearts of others, tried to make them think they're different. You have your Old and New Testament both coming from those who are trained in the esoteric wisdom of Israel.

Now you have that group. You also have Masters of Wisdom who have come out of the Eastern traditions, you know, like the Buddhist traditions, the Vedanta, the yoga. You have Masters of Wisdom who have come out of traditions that are before our recorded history.

And remember, though we have a history that's recorded now, and some of our modern scientists try to tell us that we were all Stone Age barbarians, you know, before this. This isn't true. And a few scientists are starting to realize and to see that in actuality, on this planet, we've had at least three very high civilizations already by humanity.

High ones. And due to cataclysms, both climatic, You know, like switching of axis of the earth and earthquakes, other kind of cataclysms that are involved also with the evolutionary level of the group where they got to a certain high and misused the powers like we're doing now. You notice what we were doing with the atoms? I'm hoping we're going to come out of it this time. but you know we could right on this planet we could do just what has happened before the masters of wisdom do not know whether we're going to succeed or not in case you'd like to know there are some who give you dire prophecies and say we're doomed which is nonsense and there are others who say everything we're not you know we're going to definitely work out of it and that's also nonsense. The masters of wisdom themselves do not yet know whether we're not going to have another cataclysm and go back to another dark age.

Well, dark age, that would be marvelous. Stone age.

Stone age.

You know, we look at some of our stone age primitives and think how unevolved nonsense. These are just certain groups that have survived from the previous holocausts of very highly evolved evolutions.

As I said, there have been about two others before this one, and what's going to happen with this one, we will see. All I can tell you is this. We'll be here.

We can't be destroyed except our bodies. We'll learn our lessons. But it's up to us to bring up this level so that this time our evolution, our ability to think, to invent, to use, will not be used against the members of our spiritual body, which means every living creature, every human being and every living creature, but that this time we start working towards the unity, the discrimination, the proper teaching and training system. So, as I said, Masters of Wisdom don't even... you think they're supposed to know everything, don't you? Most people do. You know, we have a need to feel that somebody knows everything. Well, that's a good way to get caught into traps where people will take advantage of us. Some people know more than you do, and you know more than other people do. And a person in college knows more than a person in kindergarten, and so on. Certainly the Masters know very much more, than we do.

But they also know that we are on the, we are trembling on a development where we may have the true brotherhood of man on this planet, which is inevitable. It's going to come. So I mean, relax.

I don't say it's going to come in this cycle because they don't know either. It depends on what we do. The curious thing is, I'll tell you something, it depends on each and every one of you you've heard of the straw that broke the camel's back.

Suppose just one of you were the weight, just one, the ability to think and feel and aspire and study and stick with the disciplines of occult development. Suppose just one of you could be the deciding factor and whether this whole planet again goes into a holocaust, which it could, or goes on to a true brotherhood of man. Wouldn't that weigh heavily on your heart?

But also, wouldn't it make you feel how extraordinary that I have this ability, this contact? the truth is each and every one of you are that deciding factor a feather is all it takes to a bumble a thing and any one of us can help bring it to that weight where it will not go into the collapse any one of us you know our beautiful little boy there probably more than notice he isn't as mixed up with erroneous training from the background of his life could probably hold his focus much more purely but a focus towards what we can be you are your level of mastery remember a master wisdom is one who has a wisdom that has gone so beyond ours that that we look up to them as gods. And yet they have others to look to, as I'll show you. Now then, do they gather for meetings together? Another question was asked to me.

Do masters gather together for meetings?

I almost used, I should say, you're darn right they do.

Regularly. they gather together just like we gather together they gather together mostly on the subtle plane but also on the physical plane they gather together to discuss the developments the crises of the planet to go over the image, the pattern being projected from above them remember they are the rulers of this planet in a subtle way that we don't recognize, but they're rulers above them. And it isn't that they rule in the way we think rulership is supposed to go.

It's that they take from the pattern they're receiving from higher spiritual levels, focus it together, and then refocus it to their next level. So the masters of wisdom have to gather together in order to go over the actual plans. they are human beings. Remember, they are human beings. Just as pretty as we are.

You think they should be more pretty? Well, you just don't know how pretty you are, or beautiful or handsome. I know some men think if you say pretty, you know, it makes them unmasculine, I think. Everybody's pretty and everybody's handsome and everybody's beautiful. but anyway it's hard to see more hard to see in some than others I'll admit I mean let's be honest okay but but the point is they meet together very regularly indeed they they compare notes on what's occurring with the groups they make new decisions it's just like a board of directors directors keeps meeting. They meet. They're like the board of directors of the planet. That's why with people close to me that I love, they give me a complaint. I say, what? You're complaining? I'll tell you what, I'll take it up with the board of directors.

But the point is, what they don't know is, I don't intend at all to take it up in any way except for my benefit. Naturally, I tell them. You should smile a little. We have to chuckle with God and the masters in life because the sense of humor is fabulous.

And I even offer to become their attorney and prosecutor and everything. You know, say, that way you'll get justice, you understand. That is, when there's a complaint about the fact that maybe I don't lecture often enough or I lecture too often or what have you, I always offer to take the complaint up to the Supreme Court itself. self so you know i've got an in you know it helps to show up what happens on this planet in any case the masters of wisdom definitely meet regularly they meet for very serious purposes but also to just enjoy each other and laugh occasionally they'll cuss a little bit and if this shocks you okay i'm sorry you read madame blavatsky you read Madame Blavatsky and hear what she had to say and others who had real contact of course you have people you know the super Pollyannas you know who are just determined to think everything is a soft lining a floating a floating ephemeralness and they try to give the idea that a master is something that floats around with vapid loving eyes, or vapid loving eyes, you know, saying God is good and, you know, this is lovely and that's lovely.

It isn't. Sure, God is good, but this isn't lovely and that's lovely. We're in a process of growth, and it means an impact of problem and a joy of overcoming. It's a strengthening of soul. and this vapid kind of reaction. Can you think of a true master as being a weak, vapid sort of something? Or do you think of it as a dynamic, unique livingness that surprises and delights you with their uniqueness? Shocks you too. There was one master of wisdom when his disciple came to visit him who was just too namby-pamby about what it is to be good. he deliberately got the smelliest cigars that existed and he had the place stinking with cigars and kept almost every other word kept using a cuss word shocking his disciple to the core of the teeth mainly to make that disciple stop reacting with with such goody-woody stuff that is not true.

You know, thinking of goodness and beauty as being a non-saying and doing, a sort of vapid weakness. On the other hand, he had another disciple who he did exactly the opposite with. Every time this other disciple came in his presence, tried to light a cigarette, he jumped on him. Every time he forgot himself and used a word that he thought wasn't exactly correct, he jumped on him, because each of these disciples needed the opposite kind of conditioning. One was overbalanced on one side, the other was overbalanced on another side.

So the Master used opposite tactics, and neither, it wasn't until the two disciples happened to meet by accident that they discovered here's the same master and with one he smokes cigars that smell like the devil and uses cuss words and wears loud clothes and with the other dressed to the T everything exactly in place every word spoken and enunciated with beauty and perfection and so on. Now are you getting the idea what a master might be like? You see, if a person is fortunate enough to become the direct disciple of a master, whatever the master is to that person he's not necessarily going to be to others well they gather together the masters do at regular meetings and in the western mystery training there is a set period where always those who've achieved the grade of second order come together because that is the time that the third order or the masters are going to be gathering on the inner plane and incidentally the inner plane involves also discarnates who have achieved second order before they died you know on the physical plane they usually are able then to function in the third order on the inner planes because of the difference in in the amount of force and power concerned they're able to function and continue growing even there as well as here though up to that point all growth has to take place here and just digestion there so i'm talking about that in my thursday night classes to give you more understanding of these details so there is there are periods of meetings and there are there once a year all those who've achieved a certain level meet from every place in the world and if they can't they send a message and the masters meet at that same time and there is a very direct contact that heightens the evolution, not just of that group because each group serves as the churnal, as I spoke that goes out and sends to the next group and to the next group that's how it's worked in the Western Mystery Qabalistic method that we have and then there are other schools of thought that have their other methods they meet sometimes I've been a little sorry but most of the times I've been very glad because I've been balled out a couple of times in the past though I've learned to avoid some of the nonsense I used to go in for in my younger years in these meetings and now I feel that I'm serving a little more intelligently with more wisdom than one would when one's younger as I think you must understand so yes Yes, they certainly get together.

Does a master have to call on other masters for help in a particular problem ever? You're darn right, just like I have to call on you. You have to call on me. We have to call on each other in our inner work. There are periods where I have to suddenly call on every member that has reached a certain grade to do a special type of work because of a certain problem that needs meditation and so on yes they call on each other very definitely for help in all kinds of conditions and situations they don't walk over alone at all there they are unified and they They work together in a manner far more extraordinary than I think most of us realize.

Then the next question that was asked, do masters have masters above them? I pointed out, yes. You have different levels and grades and degrees of masters in the hierarchy which carry a larger amount of consciousness till you go to the complete, all-inclusive consciousness of being the Logos in every detail, but that would have to take a full talk on its own. And the last one, which I'm not going to give in detail, this is the shockeroo of them all.

Do masters of wisdom need mates? Isn't that a good one? I don't think I'll answer it today. today. Because I don't, you know, it needs an explanation that would take more time than I think we have left for this morning. Let's say a master of wisdom is a human being. I'll just give you this much. But a human being who considers the problems we have pretty Pretty much like we consider the problems a one-year-old has, or a chimpanzee. Now, we look at some of the problems a chimpanzee has, and we look at some of the problems a one- and two-year-old child has. Now, they're problems to us.

Ask yourself. All right.

Now, I always like the one- and two-year-old child better than the chimpanzee idea, because it shows it's the same species completely, you know, to your minds. and if you'll realize that I think that it'll help you to realize that a master of wisdom is not a non-human and that achieving to whatever you may think or have read about as it's called the divine androgen isn't what it seems to imply you know some people just hate sex and they figure that you're spiritual if you've evolved beyond sex isn't that right?

well they have guilt about it and so does a master of wisdom have mates? Well, if in Qabalah God the Father is in union with God the Mother, Yod-Heh-Vo-Heh is in union with Elohim and thus is born the universe and the children of God. I don't see why we should think it's unspiritual for a master to have a mate.

But we like to think that we're going to evolve so high that we're going to be beyond the need of a mate. Well, that's just the only wanting to evolve so high that we're not in unity with anything.

And that means evolving backwards. But I know we've been conditioned by readings.

Certainly masters of all, certainly they have mates. If it upsets you, I'm sorry. Truth is truth. truth. And no human being is really a perfect human being without the compliment. And the Divine Androgyne isn't one person like a man having attained freedom of that horrible female thing Eve. You really know that. It means that he's achieved the ability and and capacity to attract the true affinity so that together they have the power that the power of the atom has when it has the positive core of the negative electron of whirling around it the uh you know all things need their years as an electronic engineer would know that my fronter as i said i just use the analogies without understanding the mechanics at all but everything that has power has what is called it's positive and negative and no master of wisdom would have the power if it weren't for the fact that there was this united essence and the evolution to attract it and have it and use it and incidentally there are mistresses of wisdom in case you want to know and if you want to know why you don't hear about it well maybe one of these days if you remind me I'll discuss that too Thank you.

Right, we'll now have the prayer.
