The title of my talk is The Power of Chanting in Occultism.

Now, sometimes we have spiritual aspirants who feel a great aversion to chanting, and indeed one visit here sends them away fast, permanently, and perhaps you've come across a few of these.

To be perfectly honest had I walked into a BOTA meeting originally when I first came and heard chanting I wouldn't be here today so I often marvel at the fact that I take this chance regarding others considering that I certainly could never have put up with what I would have considered considered a bunch of nonsense, making a lot of meaningless noise and thinking it's important, just falling into certain traps that really accomplish nothing except, of course, to insult salt the ear as well as strain the throat.

Well, fortunately for me, for me particularly, at that time Dr. Case was not giving out any chanting in the public work as yet. It was only being given at very special times to very esoteric groups.

Although he had attempted giving it more publicly something like 20 years before I was brought to him.

And the results were such that he dropped it like, you know, you drop something hot and you pick up off the fire. The results were not good. He was instructed by the inner to cease and desist.

Indeed, he ceased and he desisted. The point is, chanting, especially the Western occult form of chanting, was not yet in its stage of evolutionary harmony with the mass evolution as yet.

We were awaiting the life wave. I didn't know it then. We were awaiting the life wave which is now amongst us very old souls and young bodies in order to swell the ranks of the aspirants because up until a very short time ago as many of you know those who were truly and deeply and profoundly interested in occultism were few indeed and now Now the change in just a few short years is almost beyond belief. And of course the reason we have this change is because we have souls entering in, you might say adding more and more cream to that milk, which didn't have very much cream. It wasn't exactly skim milk, you understand, the human consciousness, but the cream in it was not very rich indeed. There weren't very many to add the substance, the essence of spirituality.

And, of course, due to the fact that chanting has been used erroneously and by certain fundamentalist groups through various periods, it became quite easy for some people to develop a prejudice. For me, it was very easy since I had a tendency to go into very extreme bias about things I knew nothing when I was young. Well, the thing I discovered basically was that vibration, after all, is the principle behind all things. Now this I accepted then, it's just that I didn't tie up things like the use of symbolism, the use of chanting, or the use of ritual, to these particular universal principles. I separated them in my mind, which was my great error. Well when we consider that now even scientifically speaking it is known that there isn't a single thing in the universe that doesn't vibrate in accordance with its own rate and what do we mean by vibrate for example what that which we call an atom is something that is a nucleus of force but these movements are what a movement is a vibration what is a vibration as a matter of fact if I take a ball and bounce it up and down if you want to know I'm vibrating something if you've seen lightning you know and you can look at Tarot key 16 there and you'll see it what is lightning lightning you can see the vibration of lightning by noticing that motion if you keep hitting something back and forth. If a wave moves back and forth you can call this a vibration and the rapidity of the vibration makes it one kind of phenomena. The length of the waves, they even have terminologies like waves in science, the length of the waves is even included in an attempt to understand vibration so that for example when we experience color now this has to do with chanting as you'll see in a moment when we experience color what we're doing in essence we are registering or absorbing or assimilating all the colors except the one that our consciousness is aware of that is striking a certain nerve on our eye and vibrating and therefore when we are experiencing red we are experiencing a vibration that's considered the longest and therefore the slowest vibration now when we experience violet it's the shortest and the most rapid it's just like if I bounce a ball from very close to me it'll be a shorter and more rapid bouncing but if I bounce a ball lifted a little higher it'll be longer and therefore slower this is really the difference incidentally between colors and the difference between notes which have to do with with chanting. So when we talk about the power of chant in occultism, we are speaking about the principle that is taught, which gives us the understanding of the entire evolutionary evolutionary evolutionary principles as they exist in the universe and I say the entire but remember entire has to do with capacity and only that which is close to complete divinity is able to receive what for it would be entire we each have a different entirety in our makeup which always, if we bear in mind, will help us to understand why different people are able to do different things or fail to do different things within occultism.

Now, the whole effort within the occult development of the Western Mystery Training System is to utilize the integration of all of the methods in order to bring about an integration of the personality, the lower portions of the personality with the human portions of the individuality with the divine portions of the immortal soul and this of course takes a consistent training that has to do with with train teaching the aspirants how to interact how to correlate all of the the aspects necessary. For example, to just chant by making noises without knowing what it means doesn't really get us very far. Suppose you go to some country where they don't understand English and you start chattering at them in English. Now you can chatter, you can chant, you can sing they might love the melody in fact they might love the melody so much that they might sit down and look at you in all in some of the areas and decide that you're a god or a godling or some stage in between but they still wouldn't know what your the meaning is all they know is that you made them feel very happy if you were had a good voice for singing and or chanting chanting, you would have been inspiring them. But they would not be able to take and use that constructively. In our work, as you well know, my beloved ones, we insist that if you're going to be a sincere aspirant, you're going to have to learn the things that are necessary to learn in order to use them we're not about to let you think that by handing you a bunch of chemicals you're going to be a chemist in order to become a chemist you have to learn the names of each chemical you have to learn what they do by themselves and what they do in combinations you're going to be an occultist you have to learn the language of the Angels and that's the Hebrew alphabet because that Hebrew alphabet isn't an alphabet as people think of it it is a number system that's the heart of the power of chant because it is a number system every Hebrew letter is a number all the secrets of the ancients the prophets those trained in Qabalah are intact and have never been lost because of this particular alphabet which has also been called the Chaldean alphabet and the flame alphabet and if we had no other reason to love the Hebrews we should love them for this the people with the book who have kept this alive for prosperity during periods when the cycles were dark indeed when humanity was in a dark trough we should feel a gratitude to a peoples who managed to carry something even though they didn't know what they were carrying except for the few who were initiates and you always have the initiates now you who sit here are being trained in the the secret wisdom of Israel. You are being trained to become the true spiritual Israel where we participate on levels beyond any words to describe. Well then, what are the secrets behind chant that we are able to share? Because here, when we give the work and the explanations together in this uh in a group there are the various details the technical details that we learn which are excitingly interesting to learn incidentally now but what is it then that we have to or can understand about the power of chant together here where we don't have to bring in all the technical details, since some of you are quite advanced in the work that you're receiving through the lessons. Some of you are just beginning. Some of you aren't taking it at all.

But let's try to give it in such a way that all of us will at least understand the principles and be able to enter together into a greater knowingness. Because the more we know what we're doing and why we're doing it in terms of the chant the more power we are developing the more capacity we're developing to utilize this chant for the not only the self transmutation but the capacity to transmit this transmutation this healing energy this evolutionary energy to the rest of life and we become more and more partners with God also we called it co administrators with God when we learn how to utilize these methods and principles together knowingly knowing what they mean and why they mean it so let's first go into an explanation or two which some of you know and believe me no matter how much you think you know it the one thing you can be sure of is that you You never know it enough.

Think how many repetitions and reiterations we went through through the entire vast untold numbers of cycles of revolutions of our solar system through the Milky Way and perhaps the Milky Way through other galaxies.

Think, in terms of time and space, how often we would have had to be practicing before we learned cell by cell how to function as a human vehicle.

So that's something to think about. What do we mean when we say a thing is automatic or subconscious? It means that once it was consciously and was sometimes painfully learned. We had to concentrate and do it over and over and over again. Finally we knew it just like when you learn to do anything automatically first you have to concentrate in the same manner first you have to know what it is you're doing then you have to keep reiterating that knowledge because we forget the minute we let a thing become too automatic when it comes to chanting we are not influencing the subtle vehicles like we're supposed to do it you'll start seeing the principles and the reasons why more quickly now for example all of the work of the occult in the western training system of the secret wisdom of israel has to do with developing the image into its complete perfection In other words, and God said, let there be light.

Now, remember, you get this later in the lesson through the mail, but remember that in accordance with the whole esoteric teaching, in the beginning, first was sound, because then God said, you see, the word came before the light. In fact, for a few hundred years the scientists left all the of Genesis, you know, out of the picture, saying this is obviously stupidity, look at the moronic religionists here, you know. And now, what do you know, the scientists inform us that first there is vibration in star stuff, and that you can call that sound, that's the word. In other words there's a vibration and substance that comes before light and you can watch it taking place in the forming of galaxies you can now watch it taking place in the forming of suns and it takes place in your life and mine all the time in the forming of our environmental conditions and in our relationships to each other and what even happens to each and every one of us individually in a fantastic number of ways so the met the actual methods the techniques the know-hows they exist here and they have a reason there's a logic for every single one of them what we need to realize is that you take any vibration like say the note c whatever those number of vibrations are per second and if you keep doubling it and you keep doubling it geometrically now geometrically means two four eight sixteen thirty two sixty four you know how rapidly that goes we do but we don't mean doubling by two four six eight ten twelve that's not the geometrical doubling you finally when you hit that note c finally it goes through a range gets higher and higher where you can't hear it it goes into an in other words an ultrasonic range then it keeps doubling on you get doubling and doubling and then it goes into some kind of electrical range then you keep doubling it from that electrical range if you keep doubling it it goes into it finally becomes light but not just any light P it becomes light in the vibratory range of red now as I'm pointing out chanting then in the Western occult training system is not like any other kind kind of chanting in all the world. It is a very, very disciplined and exact science.

Nor do our aspirants have to go in for the kind of boring discipline in learning it that you do in so many other types of science. But there are things one has to learn. Meanwhile, mile anyone who is within the range of these vibrations if they have certain types of aspiration will fall under its influence for example if certain kinds of chanting are done in your presence if there's something in you that's in harmony with that chanting you're going to be influenced by it and the influence the chanting incidentally doesn't have to be for good it can be used for evil too you know power is power I don't know if you realize this but you need to because that way we can be more careful we have to be infinitely more careful the power of the word is involved also in the whole idea of the power of the chant speaking is also in in a form of chanting, in case you didn't know it, and think of what's been done with words.

But the most intense form of power is in utilizing it as a condensation for special purposes. In other words, the mind has to have a purpose, a meaning, and then it charges this purpose with the chant. You know in a way it's like you using ultrasonics to clean it shakes up the old pattern that's why part of your occult development is to be uncomfortable at times now if you're not willing to then you're not willing to have more rapture and love and ecstasy you see because you're not earning the right you have to be willing to have the your spiritual uh ultrasonics ultra supersonics you know we'll give it a little it's better yet uh to shake up those patterns that are causing you to to remain miserable unhappy uh lonely unfulfilled you have to be willing for those these things to get shaken up and shaken out and you know it kind of when that's being drained out of your system some of it can be a little rough you know it's uh you know if it's going going through the if you can think of sandpaper rubbing up the inside of your bloodstream a little bit you know it's uncomfortable well this is what happens to us psychically speaking uh there are certain times when certain uh patterns are getting shattered because of interfering with the spiritual intent if we have what it takes we're willing we we're willing to bear through and keep working with it then finally if we were able to flush it out you see just like with a car you know your radiator gets all rusty you can gotta flush it out finally we can flush it out chanting then not only men just think of what chanting does but of course it has to be meaningful as I pointed out it does all of these things for the car you have to go to do one thing was for one part of it and Another thing for the other here with us, the chanting.

With the other portions of the training you receive in it, it takes care of seeing that you have the timing correct. It takes care of seeing that you break up those old patterns. It takes care of flushing them all out. And so if there's a little discomfort, so what? For the sake of what comes, that's more than worth it. All right because to have love you have to learn how to pour love and to pour love you have to break up patterns that interfere with pouring it to give a to be loved you have to give up your resentments and hatred so you have to you have to work with the things that'll shake them up get rid of them if I there are certain perverted things that uh that have a tendency to get into us we have to be willing to shake up the very thing in us that has a harmonic of attunement to that to shake it up and get it out so that we can put ourselves into a harmonic attunement now then our next group of very vital chanting is involved in what it is involved in chanting what we call the divine names now remember when we say divine names we're not saying there's more than one God God as as seen on the tree of life when chanted uh in terms of its attribute in its activity the divine activity of the crown is chanted ahea it means the one the indivisible the only it also means thou total thou it means the beginning of the whirlings it is the beginning of all things it is before the word incidentally and yet it is that which is going to utter the word the word was made flesh to that's going to be made flesh to dwell amongst us now when we chant yod hey vah hey what we are doing we are vibratorily attuning ourselves to the divine wisdom and the divine will of the father wisdom up there the gray Sephirah we are bringing about a shake-up of everything in our own system that is not in harmony with that, and we're opening ourselves to receive the extra energies from the hierarchy that are in harmony with everything that has the meaning that's involved with that.

That's what it calls doing all things in the name of God, you know, in that divine name. Then when we chant Elohim, that's the black, it could also be indigo, because the real color should be like a purple indigo, a dark purple indigo, and that would be the real true color of what's called understanding. That's Bina, the divine soul, the divine mother, understanding. We are attuning ourselves to the Elohim, which, again, is aimed at meaning to shake up everything in our nature that is not in harmony and bring in the energies that will place us in harmony with that divine love, that divine soul. Then when we chant Adonai, we're chanting that portion of the divine attribution or function or manifestation which is the manifested, that's Malkuth in the kingdom, in order to bring everything in our physical lives, our physical bodies as well as our physical environment, into harmony with the Lord our King, Adonai.

Blessed be his holy name please bear in mind that the word made flesh amongst us is a vibration that we are learning to harmonize with every chant that we do together
