Our title for this morning's talk is Qabalistic Chants, Vibratory Sound in Healing.

What is Qabalistic Chant? And what do we mean by vibratory sound in healing? And why do we do what we do during the healing service which involves involves Qabalistic chant. Now Qabalistic chant or Qabalistic chants, it really involves the same thing which our Eastern brethren call mantra.

In other words, the whole principle of creation is involved in what? In the idea of vibration.

Now let's get together on a very special idea.

what is vibration our modern scientists tell us that everything that exists really is a special level or rate of vibration well remember this is what has been taught in the mystery schools and very particularly in the cabalistic Western mysteries in which Jesus was trained this has has been taught for untold numbers of thousands of years. And of course, the mystics, the occultists of previous times were laughed at by scientists who became materialistic in their thinking because a little knowledge being a dangerous thing. Gaining a little knowledge, they decided that the ancient teachings were a lot of malarkey and people were conditioned into a sort of materialistic idea as regards ancient teachings. Not that ancient teachings are always correct, but some things that are ancient have stood the test of time and been proven out over and over again. And these are the ancient teachings that involve Qabalah, which is the most ancient of all spiritual teachings. So let's consider the basic idea, that is that all things are in vibratory motion.

This is what has been taught since the dawn of history by occultists who were chosen few, that everything exists because of vibratory motion. All right, but what is vibratory motion? We go further in occultism, and we look to this basic idea vibratory motion is said in Qabalah to take place within a substance which is eternal, beginningless, endless, timeless, forever, infinite. This substance is called the Cosmic Mother and the vibration that is the impetus that starts vibration within this substance is called in Qabalah the Cosmic Father.

Well, your Eastern brethren give you the same idea in other terms.

And so all of creation takes place due to what? To the impetus being given, which is a vibration, which can take place only through a substance, because no vibration is possible except it has something to vibrate in.

And of course, within a specific period of our materialistic scientists, they laughed at this idea because they said space has no substance, it's empty.

Now they've changed their tune, and they say all space is filled with hydrogen atoms, that is, the most simple atom that exists. exists, but that is the thing that we can be aware of with our physical senses. And in occultism it is said that anything, I don't mean physical senses can become aware of a hydrogen atom, but that certain refinements of instruments make us realize that this is what exists and tests prove it. Still, in occultism it is said that anything that exists we can be aware of with our senses is a vibratory motion that goes back to where? To that point that started it. And what would start any kind of motion?

Consciousness. Therefore, it can be said that when you say in the beginning was the word, you can say that consciousness started a vibration within the substance of its own being or you could say that you start the same thing when you are thinking about anything at all or feeling about anything at all because a feeling is also a type of thinking. In fact, feeling and thinking are two sides of the same thing. So that we have the idea that vibratory motion as such, whether it be on a physical plane or whether it be the idea of thinking about a person or a desire or a reaction mentally or emotionally to anything that this vibratory motion basically is really what it is consciousness in motion and consciousness in motion can be called vibration and you have many many kinds of consciousness. You have the consciousness of the atom. Now some people may say, how can an atom have consciousness? But in occultism we say everything has consciousness because there is no such thing as no consciousness. So you have the consciousness of the atom, which is a very primitive consciousness from our point of view, and yet what is it? We We don't know only because we've forgotten.

We have the consciousness that is temporarily forgotten. We have the consciousness of more compressed aspects of the atom, where you have a lot of atoms that come together, in order to have a little more consciousness. And you have these ripples then going out. Now think of throwing a pebble in a stream of water or in an ocean. And you have first a small circle. you've all thrown a pebble in the water you have first a tiny circle first the point then a little circle then a larger circle and a larger and it what it vibrates out doesn't it everything then starts from a point and vibrates out now the whole principle of cabalistic chant is involved with the the ability to get your vibratory being in harmony with that which is vibrating at a particular rate or speed, which will bring you to a higher level of awareness and evolution. Everything. Now, what do we mean by your particular rate?

Now, every single one of us are what? we have a consciousness whatever we have done or not done whatever we have been or not been there's been one thread that has been consistent since we can remember whatever at whatever point we started to remember in this incarnation and that is I so we can go back and say I as at at whatever age the child was as I. And we move forward then, I as older child, I as adolescent, I as young adult. And we look back at our personality, for instance, when we squalled or threw a tantrum or moped or decided we were persecuted or decided we were the most beautiful things in the world or decided we were the ugliest things in the world, we still have a string of memories that goes along a string of I.

Now that I that has its memories, the memories are not the basic, shall we say, the memories are merely the strings or the outer going ripples.

But think of the I as that central pebble that's thrown into the ocean. and then you can see that your eye is something that's a continuous thing in other words the most outermost circle of that ripple in that stream of water still is what started by the central eye which is the really solid thing or shall we say the enduring thing and the vibratory motion shall we say the impact impact of that pebble in the water might be called the strength of the individuality of that eye, as well as the uniqueness. Now you know that some eyes, I don't mean E-Y-E-S, I mean capital I apostrophe S, that some eyes are extraordinarily more stable than others. Some of them hang on come hell or high water, and often it's hell, they'll hang on. Sometimes they're hanging on negatively, but they're still hanging on. In other words, there's a certain solidity about that particular I or a power, whereas other I's, that is individuals, have a sort of weak weak point of beingness, and their ripples do not wash out into as much influence.

Now, if you can think of stable and strong I as against weak, or shall we say, young, let's put it young or old souls now, if you like, which would not mean necessarily that the old souls always do the right thing because if you get fixated on a wrong notion and you're an old soul you've got a lot of power there with which to create a lot of nonsense and pain for yourself and others nevertheless this is the power aspect the solidity or stability of the eye or the vibratory aspect of the eye Now, every single individual is a very particular vibratory frequency, you might call it. You know, you've seen some things vibrate slowly.

Haven't you seen waves that come slowly, slowly, and others that go fast in the water?

When you throw that pebble in the water, suppose you throw a great big stone.

It's going to make a bigger splash, and the waves are going to spread more. When you see, for instance, a very powerful boat going through the water, what are you going to see? It's pushing ahead and forming fantastically rapid, what? Waves.

Now, vibration happens to be a matter of waves. this is known by modern science but this has been known by occultism it's a matter of waves now then these waves are waves of consciousness this is what we must bear in mind and there is nothing except consciousness working within its own substance so you have the kind of consciousness that not only can have a wide area of its circles of influence but can also make a splash by having rapid circles of influence now we're all living inside a cosmic ocean of mind stuff all of us because there is nothing else in the universe except cosmic mind stuff and however we experience it, it may be whatever level of vibratory frequency we're tuning into or we are aware of. Now in this cosmic mind stuff that we are all in, it's because we are parts and aspects. We are vibratory frequencies within this mind stuff. And so some of us push others around with our thinking and feeling because of the power others push them around and influence them because of the speed and usually the speed has to do also with the weight so you might say that the stable soul is far more influential than the unstable soul that is the older soul has more influence than the younger soul. Taking this idea then, and you take it up the scale, you can see that although here on earth man is certainly the most highly evolved product, which means what? Man has the greatest influence, vibratorily speaking. In the beginning was the word, really, if we analyze it, word is what? It's vibration. And we are all special vibratory centers within the vibratory whole, which is God, acting and experiencing and influencing the whole. Just like within our physical body, our livers and our lungs and our heart and our pancreas influences influences the whole metabolism and the whole function of the body. Every single thing then. There is no such thing as an unimportant vibration. You see? And there's no such thing as a vibration that is more than another.

other but then if we can get it into our minds that our thinking and our feeling and our being is a unique vibratory rate within the cosmic mind stuff and that we are the way the cosmic mind thinks and feels at a certain portion of its own self-growth and development development. We can then start to see that the vibratory rate in itself is not only an indication, but it can be used. And this is what the Western mysteries have worked on. In other words, let's take it in terms of familiar imagery here. Here. We all know, I don't know if you've all seen it, but certainly we all know that if you have a glass and a certain note is struck, this glass will shatter. Now what did it? A sound wave did it. We've all had ourselves shocked because of planes, jets, breaking the sound barrier, as they call it. now something going whoosh thousands of miles above us maybe our houses shake our mirrors can break our windows can break things can fall over we've all at least been aware of the shock that hits us it's an explosion isn't it it's an explosion Now all of us are familiar with this, that vibratory impact of the sound barrier, of the breaking of the sound barrier, which is what? It is motion within what? A substance. The substance which we call our atmosphere.

And remember, as I told someone recently, our atmosphere, as he well knew, our atmosphere is an ocean in itself. It's because ocean is what? It depends on who and what you're looking on. an airplane is swimming in an ocean. Actually, planes took the principle of fish in order to learn how to swim in the atmosphere. So you still have this substance, which is, in essence, fluidic, whatever it seems like to our senses. I'm sure a fish doesn't think of its lake or ocean or stream as being quite as thick as we think of it.

It doesn't at all. You can tell by the way it moves. It has other kinds of sensory apparatus. So your vibratory aspects of life in and of themselves have to be understood in order to use them in the most positive way. now vibration in itself then is a very powerful thing when we realize that through using the law of vibration we tune into radios and tvs because what are radio waves or what are tv waves what you notice they they're called waves again you come to the waves of this current i try to to point out to you. And we need certain instruments to tune in to certain wavelengths.

And what is a wavelength? Now, a wavelength could be described in this way. A very short wavelength bangs back and forth against, say, the first circle of a pebble. It doesn't go further. It just bangs back and forth, and that's very rapid, isn't it? then you take the next ripple around that pebble and say that you have something that hits back and forth back and forth back and forth that's a longer wavelength so a wavelength really could be called short or long according to what distance does it travel back and forth or how rapidly does it travel back and forth within the same distance because in wavelengths you have not only your sound but you have your light and you have your radio you have your TV you have your higher cosmic rays which means what more rapid vibration and then you go down the scales you have slower vibrations you have then a very small range of awareness hearing wise with the senses that has to do with wavelength you can hear my voice because you and I are attuned to the same wavelength wavelength in our physical vehicles and our physical vehicles are attuned to the same wavelength together because our consciousness is on an approximate level within this ocean of cosmic consciousness otherwise we would not be able to be aware of each other there. In the same way, though, remember, you could hear my thought or I could hear your thought because a word that's put out as a wavelength is a sound that is just one part of a long vibratory line of meanings and the more rapid the vibration the less would a physical ear hear it but the mind would be able to hear it shall we say directly and that's what we call telepathy now here's where we come to vibratory chance as well as the power of using the vibratory method now in occultism it is well known that you can take any kind of beat that is vibration and if If you hold your consciousness in a certain area, and if you bring within yourselves a very special attitude emotionally, you can take a specific vibration that is there, and you can heighten it.

Dr. Case called it a geometrical progression idea that started off with so many beats per second say for the color red in other words our eyes see red and you keep doubling it multiplying it and doubling it and multiplying it geometrically that same color that you see with your eyes goes up in frequency and it's there even though your senses are not aware of it but then then your consciousness becomes influenced by it.

And the more rapid the vibration, the more the consciousness directly can participate. So the principle of Qabalistic chant has to do with getting together with the mind and the heart.

We bring about an enhancement of our own consciousness because we've been able to vibrate ourselves during the portion of the work of the vibratory chant, to vibrate ourselves in such a way that it brings in, shall we say, more finely attuned programs, or, let's put it another way, more vast and profound kinds of consciousness.

which are ordinarily closed off.

And in this way, we manage to expand and develop within ourselves an ability to be tuned in to a level of consciousness that becomes a never-failing, a never-failing help to our conscious minds.

And this is what Dr. Case has called in his course, the correlation of color and sound which means what it's bringing about a correlation of wavelengths in the light the area of light which you break it down in the spectrum into color along with the wavelengths of the scale of sound because we go through this scale and by doing this we're getting up a stronger beat of waves that are more influential so that we get attuned to the cosmic level, the closest cosmic level we're capable of at the moment, which opens us up to even greater levels. And by attuning ourselves in this way, we have influx of levels of consciousness from the cosmic area of the ocean that we are not ordinarily able to be aware of. and this always must be done the work we do this must be done with the group spirit because there are some things we can do alone some things we can only do with the group the idea is that there are certain portions of the work that must be done in group there are other portions must be done alone but the one does not take the place of the other and our vibratory chant takes every vibratory section and beat that circles us each single one of us as the universe every color is a sign to a sign of the zodiac every sound is correlated with a color every one of them and these correlate as like a ray if you think of yourself self as the center, and think of the ray going out, into infinity. These correlate with the infinity of cosmic consciousness from the beat that we're using to multiply geometrically.

But the geometrical progression is exactly what multiplies your evolution, so that what would take a certain length of time is condensed down, not that you miss anything, but you go more rapidly.

And so this vibratory chant that we do here together has extraordinarily more significance than people know.
