The title of our talk for this morning is Qabalistic Mantras, Liberatory Power in Action.

I don't know how many of you are familiar with the Eastern philosophies which talk about the power of the mantra.

But perhaps those of you who are familiar with this may not be aware of the fact, at least some of you, that the power of the mantra is something that has been a part of the Western occult development and evolution ever since recorded history. You have the idea presented that all of creation started from the vibration of sound.

And in our Eastern philosophies, they put it in a slightly different way that is the translators try to be literal in the way they translate the original teachings which are the scriptures of the eastern philosophies and the translators of the manuscripts of Qabalah again, unless they were Qabalists also and they weren't, unfortunately they translated in accordance with their kind of thinking, literalizing something that is supposed to be a metaphor.

So we have these misinterpretations, and yet, always, we have had a line of people, human beings, who have been able to take the rigid disciplinary training that is required to be able to understand what a word or phrase means. You see, communication takes place on many levels.

To understand what our Eastern philosophies, the brethren in the East have said, as well as our brethren of the West, who have been trained in the Qabalistic methods, it. We have to realize that we must go a little bit beyond the surface words and try to feel into.

And of course, this is why we give you tarot. Tarot takes you away from words and gives you a language in pictorial imagery which is closer to the creative power of your consciousness, mine, and God's, because that's the way creation takes place, through imagery. But But through imagery, we have to know what we mean by imagery. Now, some of us, because we are fastened to false interpretation of our physical senses, think that imagery is only that which takes place with the eyes.

But tell me, when you hear something, isn't that an imagery? In other words, it's the impact of a vibration, just as sight is. And when you touch something, isn't that an imagery?

It is the impact of a sense of touch. And when you taste something, all of our senses really relate to another vibratory awareness which has been called imagery. There you have again mistranslations that make us try to limit the idea of what creation is all about. So that when our Eastern brethren tell us that the universe was created by sound it exists in sound and it grows through sound and we have to utilize these powers on our own when we come to a certain point just like the embryo doesn't have to worry about breathing or eating or anything in the womb of the mother, does it not?

The point is, then, that as embryos we don't have to work for anything. We're nourished, we're nurtured, we receive everything, and it is just heaven, and we are in heaven. And then the moment we're thrown out to take over on our own, it is rough. Well, the thing that we don't realize, most of us, at least in a certain area as occultists, is that the same thing, everything occurs in principle right down the line on another arc of this spiral circle of evolution.

And what we don't realize is that the age of the soul determines pretty much the same thing as being an embryo inside the mother's womb and then being thrown out into this horrible world where you have to breathe on your own and eat on your own and digest on your own and do all these other things well where life was so terrifically easy before we come to a point in our evolution as as vehicles, where we have to take over our own eating, breathing, growing as spiritual beings.

And you would not be in this temple if you had not achieved the age from embryonic humanity humanity that just reacts within the mass mind of humanity, you know, and therefore instinctively does this and doesn't do that, reacts with the unevolved and sort of savage part of the subconscious human levels. And in the same way, we have to do our own spiritual breathing. We have to do our own spiritual walking we have to do our own spiritual suckling at the breast of the cosmic mother we have to do our own spiritual chewing of life experiences up to a point we're taken by the planetary spirit which is is our mother, which we sometimes call nature, and it is that and more, infinitely more. And our beloved planetary mother, nature, has reached the point where the children have to take over for her sake, as well as the sake of the whole universe. And this means that we start learning how to properly breathe, eat, suckle, etc. You getting the point? Now Now this is what a real spiritual aspirant is.

Then what is the principle that is involved in learning how? It is getting to know the realities of utilizing the powers of the universe consciously as adult children of God instead of embryos of God.

And using this spiritually, this is the thing that bothers people, you know. To go in for discipline, I've heard people say, I don't have to meditate rigorously like that. I'm guided all the time. I've heard other people say, I don't have to worry about reasoning out and planning anything. I live by the spirit.

I've heard other people say, I don't have to go in for these disciplines. I've evolved beyond that. I'm guided moment by moment.

Well, these are not the children who've grown up enough to take over enough responsibility to help their mothers and fathers, is it now? And that's the secret really behind enough drive to use the vibratory powers of the infinite consciously.

As infants we suckled and we were diapered and washed and as we got older we took over responsibilities for our own bodies and our own planning for our futures.

And are we then still embryos, or are we reaching, or have we reached the stage where we are starting to help our parents in the running of the household, taking on our share of the responsibilities, and reaching into the time when we have the infinite freedom of our adulthood and our fulfillments on these adult levels. This is the difference between the truly serious occult aspirant and others willingness to take on the responsibility for our own growth the power of consciousness is something that no one else can control for you except when you're below spiritual adult level then it is controlled for you.

But for what purpose?

For what purpose?

The sinking down into lower levels of the mass consciousness is like the infant, the destructive infant, that if you let it get at the delicate china is going to smash it.

That's the evolutionary level. Because it has no concept of treasuring.

And what to treasure even?

Every infant is an egomaniac.

And yet we say, look at this precious innocence. It is a precious innocence.

And in the infant, being an egomaniac is natural and precious. But when we get an adult body, oh oh with the same trait in other words if we have not evolved spiritually psychologically to go beyond that particular response then we're acting in a way that's a travesty to the human form now then the creation of the universe according to both East and West has taken place by what they call sound or word what is there any difference but these are translations what do they really mean vibration and our modern science tells us the whole universe is a notion of vibration. This is what occultism has said. Certainly all of the Qabalistic portions of the Bible indicate this, and those who wrote it knew it, as we do, those of us who are responsible to see that you retain this training and are given the training, those those of you who are willing to start suckling at the breast of the universal self and doing your own digesting and learning how to do your own vaster breathing.

And you wouldn't be here if you weren't ready and willing to go in for those disciplines, now would you?

All right, it takes discipline. You have to learn how. And that's why in the deeper occult systems you always have certain techniques and of course one of the problems is some people fall in love with the technique which is really just a device to help you grow into a very the next stage or level of your powers as children of God of the universal creative self. Now the techniques of the East have never, for what reason I don't really understand, are given out, nor do, as far as I know, do they have the knowledge of the combination of the different ends of vibrational power and the use of them in order to help lift the spirit to learn how to nourish itself in its true world that is the world of the spirit and remember when an embryo is born into the world of the physical it has to learn how to handle that and we learn how to handle the spirit but we don't do it by dying if we don't do it here we won't do it there we have to keep coming back and back reincarnationally till we learn to handle these vibrations and what is handling the vibrations all right the power of consciousness which is basic thought consciousness is vibration consciousness as our modern science has shown by taking these these electrical electrical patterns from the brain.

You know, a person thinks this and feels that, and there are very definite patterns on a graph that are shown electrically.

We are an electrical system as far as physical plane understanding goes. But remember, the electrical system that we are is the end result of something that is projecting this electrical system that we are. And all of modern science shows that every bit of our physical bodies are parts of an electrical system, which is what? Nobody, no scientist can tell you what electricity is. They've just learned how to use it.

And in the same way.

Nobody can tell you in words what the power behind what we call the physical electrical system is, but we've not only learned how to use it, we've learned how to teach you how to become aware of it.

That vibratory ocean of consciousness and God that is behind the outer form and yet feeds this outer form and breathes it and lives it, the very thing we were talking about and our learning how to take charge of this vibration.

So the Qabalistic mantra, there isn't one mantra. There are many mantras, just as in the East, utilizing vibratory power in what way? The mind or the consciousness lifts itself to an idea then all of the forces that we have and that we're taught to use correlate themselves together just like your body has had to learn how to correlate itself together doesn't it to keep your body going well we do the same thing in order to become conscious of our spiritual body and to therefore be able to work in and through our spiritual body as conscious sons and daughters of God. We have to learn how. We've had to learn how to do everything, even if we don't remember it. We had to learn how to become human beings. Before that we had to learn how to be whatever it is we were, coming up the line of evolution and we have to learn how to be conscious in our spiritual vehicles otherwise when we die you know what happens we just float around like we do in sleep and reincarnate until we learn how to be conscious most of us think that all we have to do is die and we've got everything we want that isn't true what you don't learn here you don't get there and what you learn here you you maintain there, and then you come back and you maintain more.

Being in and through a physical vehicle is being able to have and maintain what we learn, and that's how gradually it becomes subconscious. What do you think your subconsciousness is? The whole universal subconsciousness is the concentration of consciousness, making mistakes over and over again, but vibrating on a special, keeping the attention on a special vibratory level, until it has learned to hear, see, taste, touch, or whatever the senses have been, and gotten so familiar with it that it becomes subconscious knowledge.

Then it goes on to the next thing.

Your whole body that you work now you think something else works it no every one of us learned just like a person who plays the piano or organ learned how to do finger by finger just like a singer learned how to sing just like a typist had to learn finger by finger once we have gone we are immortal beings and eternal creatures and we've learned everything And the thing we want to realize now is that we have to learn how to use the Qabalistic mantra.

We have to learn how to put the vibratory power in action consciously so that it will become subconscious knowledge, so that we can take it with us, and when time to come back, come back with a power. This is evolution, and this is growth. And the use therefore of the vibratory mantras in Western occultism is aimed at getting our own consciousness a sort of beating until it gets into an even rhythmic vibratory tune in beat with certain levels of awareness and there are many many levels what is it that we do when we're working with mantra basically when we are working with any formula of chant you see we are utilizing the same power that the creative God of the universe utilizes because after all we're children of God and you know doesn't your child take care after you sometimes happily or unhappily still what else have you got to take care after except your parents and we are inside of the creative universe which is the creative consciousness of God and the universal God the moment conscious the consciousness of the one God the one life the all starts concentrating itself within a section this concentration takes the form on these different levels of what a vibration so you you have vibratory formulas.

It's known that the difference between one atom and another atom is in its number, and a number is really a vibratory formula. But the vibratory formula is part of the whole idea of, in the beginning was the word. The word is what? A vibratory formula. Now, every one of us are a vibratory formula of a vast kind within holding other vibratory formulas. As an example, when somebody plays a symphony, how many vibratory formulas are within that one symphony with the many instruments, you see? But it's a one piece of music, isn't it? All right, now each of us are a vibratory formula, like a symphony, with all kinds of instruments within ourselves and it is our consciousness which is the shall we say orchestral director now this orchestral director which is our consciousness can only direct its symphony in accordance with how good these musicians are isn't that so and so it keeps improving them by practice and of course experiences as this. But the point is that with the use of vibratory mantra, that is going in for chanting of a very special kind that is known to have certain results and effects. What we do is similar to what modern science has learned to do with what is called the maser and laser beams.

Now how many of you are not familiar with this light is known from one spot of light to sort of diffuse outwards now some of our brilliant modern scientists have learned how to keep it from diffusing outward they make it remain stable by finding a polarity of something that keeps it shooting together concentrated and the power of this beam as against the dis you know the diffused light is so fantastic that they're able to cut steel and into the heaviest element that exists with a concentrated bit of light. Now the power that makes a scientist take this diffused light which just shines and give it such power, this same principle is involved and has been through centuries and thousands through millennia by those who've gone before before us who have direct consciousness with God, or at least that portion of God that they've evolved with being able to have, because who knows to what stretches it can go. They have learned how to take the vibration of the universe, which is part of learning how to use the divine powers, and to concentrate them down so that instead of dissipating all over they keep beating on a thing and deepening and then you have spiritual power mental power emotional power that keeps deepening and therefore increasing in its capacities now the there there are many elements involved in it but one of the most vital and important of these elements exists within the idea of the the use of our vibratory formulas. When we chant Ahaya, we're chanting a formula that is known.

It is the one, the indivisible, the self. And when we chant that divine name, a divine name is what? It's a spiritual vibratory formula of Yod-Heh-Vah-Heh, which is the cosmic masculine principle. We're awakening that portion in ourselves and all of life for healing, for growth, for evolution. When we're chanting the divine name Elohim, this is the cosmic mother principle that we are narrowing in to awaken in ourselves. We're using a power, a vital power, the same power that spews the stars into space and forms the nebulas. And with the Adonai there are many others but in this temple in the outer work we use only these four basic ones though there are others in the training of a cultist who have what it takes to stick who don't go off, shall we say finding easier ways instead of learning how to do their own breathing and eating spiritually this is it and then when we do our healing Qabalistic chant with the colors and the sound, what we're doing is, again, getting the beat of the whole octave that keeps beating up beyond our range of sight or hearing.

We're using, correlating the light and the sound in order to bring a deeper reach of growth and healing for ourselves, our consciousness, our thinking, our feeling, our attitudes to shatter our old patterns that keep us from it, and therefore for both ourselves and all of life, to bring the word of God made light.

I think that's enough of a partial explanation of the principle for this morning, and walk in the light of God.
