Our topic for this morning deals not with noise but sound. Of course it can be noise, but it can also be harmonically perfect. perfect, vibrating with the divine through chanting. We deal with one of the most esoteric and yet also well-advertised principles of occultism whenever we deal with the subject of chanting. Still, I think it's very difficult for most people to grasp the significance of this particular principle. For example, I'm sure most of us here are aware of the fact that every school of occult training, whether it be of the Eastern or Western persuasion, give what you might call an almost identical set of principles when it comes to attempting to describe creation or to give the esoteric significance of creation itself. our Eastern brethren say creation takes place through sound just that simple statement and of course the Western occult tradition we say the same thing in more than one way very much more than one way certainly the very beginnings of the Bible declare creation is taking place by the declaration, which again is sound, word, the declaration of God, saying, let there be, mind you, he says, let there be.

It's a pronouncement, sound, vibration.

All of the occult teachings about creation have been so fantastically accurate that it just staggers the imagination. it simply staggers the imagination and the fact that creation took place and I will even say takes place via sound is not even argued about by those who have enough knowledge and enough imagination to be able to apply the idea and the principle in more than one area and more than one way because now we certainly know that whatever it is that we experience from interstellar space definitely has a range of vibratory range and as a matter of fact that which is thought to be the most distant objects in space which are picked up by you know what by a dish that in a sense they call radio dishes now a radio is is something that takes in and gives out sound. Now radio waves are pouring through you all the time and you just don't know it.

But you get an instrument that's built just so and you learn to attune it, then you are able to experience some of the sounds because you've got the instrument that's able to pick it up and reflect it back or all the various things that radio waves can do and these discs vast discs that have been built picking up what are called the radio waves of the most distant objects in space whatever that means to the soul it has a meaning to the study of the heavens via the senses it is only through these radio waves we've been able to become aware of certain kinds of objects in the heavens that are said to have a speed that of travel as radio waves that approaches like some of them the ones they call quasars for example an impossible sort of thing but it exists or at least that exists in a certain range of experience.

So with the use of sound or with the use of vibrations, even our scientists now investigate a universe and discover things they didn't know were there.

Now, how did our basic masters, celestial beings, other beings who were trained in special modes of meditation, how did they know this particular thing? Because even the way a sun begins or the way a galaxy begins is said to be done via the gathering together in movement or motion. Something gathers it into a pattern. They give it names or they give it terms, but they don't really understand the significance of this. We do know if we take grains of salt or sand and put them on a surface slippery enough for them to move easily and that we draw a say we have a bow with a violin and we draw a certain sound if you hit just the right sound these little grains arrange themselves in patterns sound arranges little grains in special patterns we know that with sound also you not only get patterns that arrange themselves you take sound that you can't hear and you can smash certain patterns like gallstones for example and kidney stones their patterns you smash there the molecules or the the adherence of certain portions a certain sound can smash a glass the molecules simply cannot stay together the sound that sound has has power and the molecules that have been holding together in a very special pattern that is so solid it flies apart, it breaks, showing again that when you hit the right sound and there's the proper response instrument, whatever it is, whether it be a glass that breaks with a certain sound, whether it be a bunch of little stones that break down, which is a breaking down of a pattern or whether it be the coming together of a pattern please mind I want you to realize what I've just been telling you is that just here within the range of our senses through the use of sonic which is sound you can either make patterns or break them do you realize the significance of this now going a step further then and recognizing the fact that everything that occurs on what we think of as the physical plane is occurring because something is doing it in other words we're the ones who make a certain sound or something makes it whatever it is uh we're the ones then you or i or something has made a sound that has made a pattern in other words we know patterns come into being via the attraction actual patterns some of them are fantastically beautiful you know just fantastically beautiful in fact they all are so that here we have this indication that via certain sounds and instruments attuned to react to those sounds whether those instruments or whether you want to call a molecule an instrument or atoms, what difference since everything is composed of the same stuff ultimately and then it's in their arrangements that you have your patterns and even your different kinds of life processes.

We have here then an indication that when we say and God said or when we hear from our Eastern brethren the universe is created through sound it exists through sound it is finally reabsorbed into the divine through sound what we have then is this indication that through the vibration that has been brought about by something with consciousness we have mystery and wonder and miracle taking place all around us mystery wonder and miracle now how does this correlate with chanting now chanting remember is also a form of sound it is a very specialized form of sound when we chant we are utilizing the the instrument which is our own body in order to make certain sounds that are patterned sounds.

So that when we make certain patterned sounds there are certain elements that via the idea of the principle we're relating it to would have to react and so they do. so that you might say in having a title like vibrating with the divine through chanting we are actually being quite literal with you whatever that title may sound like because in essence if we accept the theory or the statement that the universe is created through sound that it exists because of sound now remind you it doesn't have to be a sound you hear with your ears your ears are very limited within the range the supersonic is above the range subsonic is below the range and they're all going on right now not only going on but as i pointed out radio waves are pouring through your body all the time they're pouring through this building they're there all the time and there isn't the time they're not there we become aware of various ranges of these these radio waves when we have instruments that attune themselves or are attuned to these special wavelengths. And yet, here they are. In the same manner, you might say the creative word or the creative voice of the Most High is here all the time. Why don't you hear it?

well funny thing is you do all the time but we have not yet learned how to interpret it correctly the reason we have not yet learned how to interpret it correctly is because even those of us who have a complete acceptance of spiritual teachings and training we are hypnotized by our senses to the the degree where we interpret certain things via the senses even when we know better we can't help it as a matter of fact on the whole but we thought we can help and this is what chanting is all about what we can help is a development within ourselves of ever more finer attunements so that by the the finer attunements we can start receiving, shall we say, the divine broadcasts more accurately so that we can start becoming aware of this soundless sound. By soundless sound, it's meant merely that it's certainly beyond the range of what we think of as sound when we think of what we pick up as sound with our senses. Remembering the power of sound that can sound you don't hear that can break up gallstone break up kidney stones and break up the person to incidentally and kill it can kill them off or it can so interfere with the pattern of the vehicle the very molecules of that vehicle that the vehicle can disintegrate just like we see the disintegration of a glass with striking of a sound or we can learn to attune ourselves to the kind of sound the refined by refined you know what we mean the more spiritually attuned kind of broadcast where we can both dissolve and rearrange at the same time as a matter of fact all of true spiritual attainment that takes place actually takes place through the use of powers often uh that is powers and aspirant isn't really consciously aware of they're using it perhaps in other ways but the use of these powers help to break down, because everything is in a continuous breakdown process, everything, including our own bodies, otherwise we wouldn't be able to keep a pattern at all. Everything is breaking down all the time and then reassembling itself via the pattern that our consciousness holds, or you might or even say via the pattern that our consciousness is or you might say via the pattern that the divine mind holds in regard to portions of its being which we call by each of our names you can use many different terms and this brings us to many different levels but in essence you have a breakdown process that goes on with a rebuilding process all the time A pattern exists because the consciousness has sounded it out.

Now, thought is sound on a non-ear-hearing level. Remember this. Everything that is projected vibratorily could be called, when we think of the spiritual interpretation, in other words, we have here a power that is projecting on a vibratory level. and this vibratory level goes on from what we might call the slowest beat to the most rapid beat because here we have a method example huh a method that has been taught by those who have continuously reiterated the principle that creation takes place by a sound creation continues to exist via sound and that it is sound which will eventually one day at least certain portions of creation break them up and bring them back into itself in the various ways that consciousness does it but bear in mind that which we think of as being a physical body suppose consciousness got itself attuned vibratorily to that level which is the most highly evolved that most spiritual level which is what we're all working for to get our consciousness so it vibrates in harmonic and therefore in resonance with the divine vibratory knowingness now we vibrate with the divine because because there's nothing except the divine, as a matter of fact.

But when we don't know it, we don't have the benefits of it consciously. So what we're out for is to consciously share in the benefits of what we really have. But we're working. In other words, radio waves are really there going through you all the time, but are they doing you any good? Are you enjoying a symphony that's right there pouring around somewhere, but you haven't got the instrument, the radio tuned? to enjoy the symphony. In the same way, the divine consciousness is here all the time in you, with you, through you, and as a matter of fact, even is you. But if you don't know it, then you're not experiencing the benefits as yet. So the ability to understand how to utilize sound in order to bring ourselves into the harmonic of the very highest really involves the ability to start using a sort of interaction or interconnection in a way it's like training our consciousness to become faster than the speed of light and therefore becoming infinite in mass because there's a level of experience which i know well where we become i am the i am that i am which instructed moses it's the divine divine ahea. There is that level which, through the grace of God, I know well. And in that level, we are infinite in mass. This is just as good a term as any. And we are certainly beyond the speed of light.

because when you're everything at once and where and everywhere at once and when there's no everywhere because everything everywhere is I I am and it is it is a rapture it is a song it is an ecstasy it is an eternalness it is an always have been it is an always will be nests chanting by itself isn't the secret you see too many people think because they've heard it from somebody who has said so and they believe them and you know one of the sad things is whether it be in a cultism or anywhere were else a little knowledge is a dangerous thing but the truth of the matter is that that those who think that all they have to do is take in a few little detailed instructions that have to do with technique and attain are mistaken because technique which exists and is important is one part of the the total picture just one part of it and this is why the secret the true secret of chanting has to involve the things that we give you and we give them to you step by step first of all if you know we teach you you have to learn to hold certain images abstract ones like the Qabalistic tree of life and more specific ones like the Tarot keys it's a training and image holding and image association you have to take hold these images and we teach you you have to also hold color in your consciousness now it doesn't matter you might be colorblind you still hold color in your consciousness you're just not seeing color in the same way other people do but it exists there whether you're aware of it only with the five senses in the same way or not you have to correlate these then according to all secret teachings remember every single color has a very specific note.

That is, when we're talking about the range of our senses and you have to work from where you are.

Now then, when you train yourself and you see you can't be trained not even by the master of Qabalah. You have to receive the training. That's why one of the first things that we should recognize is that when we are told Qabalah means receptive or to receive, what is being said is a true Qabalist is one who knows how to receive instruction and therefore knows how to develop the ability and the capacity to give instruction finally in the final analysis. And it does it how? Through practical application.

Through learning how to utilize these energies, learning how to utilize these powers.

So the training that you're given, step by step, is a training in getting control of your image-making.

Now, our chanting is aimed at attuning our ability to keep positive thoughts going, or positive states of feeling, of thinking, of being, with our imagery, our emotions, and therefore with our full environment. For example, we chant here, what do you think we're really doing? Now, if you're doing your work regularly, and not just thinking, well, just that the outer thing itself will bring it. If you're doing your work regularly, if you're taking the ideas of these chanting out with you, and I know you are, some maybe more intensely than others, but you're certainly all doing that, I know. what happens is that the power of the chant sets a new pattern going the new pattern being or slight alterations it isn't that it is uh dynamically observant right now on an instant like the shattering of a glass the new pattern is being shaped vibratorily in other words when When you chant ahea, that's the divine one, the only, you're chanting something that means unity.

It's I am that I am. When you chant yod-heh-vah-heh, and you know your tree of life, and you know your tarot keys that lead into it and go out of it, and you're taught this in your lessons, you know, and in classwork, but you get other phases also. what you're doing in essence you're training your consciousness to be able to keep an association of images going that are positive even without having to do the kind of willing that most people do in other words when you just fight with yourself and I will to be positive I will to be positive you know I am good I'm good I'm good I'm good you become a parrot nothing really happens the only way you stay good whatever good may mean is by having a positive pattern that you're holding for the mind stuff of creation to keep shaping itself into as the yesterday patterns uh go out because they can't help going out everything is in movement everything is in motion nothing stands stand still. And because of this, you are forever re-attuning yourself. When you remain the same emotionally, you're fixated on negatives. It's only because by holding negative emotional reactions, you are bringing in the same station to attune to. But you see, it's because we are always changing that all we need to really do, basically, although it isn't that simple, all we have to do is to keep our attention on these symbols and to align our idea of Who am I with these symbols in other words instead of I am and such and such an age and and such and such a condition and such and such a this and that no I am an agent of God being called in who lives in harmony with the divine receptivity I am the unity and the wisdom of life you know Dave are hey when I chant that you see and then when you chant it you've got to do the same thing when we give these verticals it is your responsibility for your growth to hold this image while you're chanting now by holding this image I am the wisdom of the tree your hey why I am the understanding and love of this tree Elohim I am the light made manifest Adonai I am the divine a hair I am the agent of healing Archangel Raphael I am the agent of warmth and love i am the flame of god i declare the glory of god i declare the glory of god in me you see this is your declaration when you're chanting when you're trained to chant as we chant this is what you call vibrating with the divine through chanting because you're not just chanting something that's pretty you're chanting something that is a basic formula just like a certain note will smash a glass and a certain beam will bounce back from an object a radio you know radar beam in the same way every note that you chant is aligned with a certain color and a certain Hebrew letter and a certain Tarot key and a certain combination between the spheres of this Qabalistic tree of life and much else we are aligning as the mind has learned that all of subconsciousness becomes stirred to hold what to hold that pattern so you are being trained to do what not to become the divine pattern you are the divine pattern you are being trained to learn how to vibrate on that level so that you will be able to experience that which you are consciously.

The heavens declare the glory of God and do you think your vehicle is not the glory of God?

The earth showeth forth thy handiwork. You think your body is not the handiwork of God? When you chant, vibrate God because God is experiencing or training you in order for God in and through you to be the most complete and rapturous song symphony fulfillment
