The powers of Qabalistic chanting. Now, this is quite a subject and we could enter into many different phases of it.

But whatever phase we choose, we're barely touching the surface of what can be said now. Now, why should chanting be such a potent method for spiritual unfoldment, for the unfolding of awarenesses and the ability to share these awarenesses? well there are many there could be many answers to this but I'd like us to first recapitulate some ideas from the Bible that we certainly have heard of many times read for as you've heard me point out previously in Genesis we have a continuous state of levels of the the outpouring of the divine into creativity, put in such a way that if we stop to analyze it, we can always see, or we ought to be able to see, that it has to do with vibration. And, you know, after all, when we chant, we're certainly vibrating ourselves and the atmosphere, because each series of the creative act, and God said God said said itself it is the voice and we know that in the New Testament we have one of the very beautiful sections indeed I believe from Saint John where it says in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was was God. And then it goes on to make as complete a Qabalistic statement as we can ever become aware of anywhere. And this word, remember, was light. And this light was the life of man now we also know from to from tradition it has been said that before the destruction of Jerusalem when the Romans came in and we must say the Israelites fought and they fought hard they had more trouble with that tiny little nation than they had but the biggest most powerful nations of the world that is in conquering them they I guess the power that they had to fight as long as they did tiny as they were resided in the fact that amongst them had walked so many Qabalists trained in the powers of Qabalistic chanting who knew how to contact higher levels of the hierarchy and therefore how to project them out, to share in this power. And certainly all of us by now should be aware of the fact that the training methods of the secret wisdom of Israel not only took place then, but have continued taking place, and that now we have the privilege of sharing this teaching and this training here now before the destruction of jerusalem then if you will recall i don't know how many of you are unfamiliar with this particular uh story it is a very accurate one it is said that before the destruction of Jerusalem the high priest of Israel would pronounce the name of God the word of power once it was once each year and then it was done in the very secret tabernacle and therefore afterwards it has been said that the this word of power was lost and everyone thought if they accepted this story in that way everyone thought that here the word of power word of power was lost so there was something that was lost in this destruction but of course this is a completely Qabalistic statement and the truth of the matter is it was never lost because the same school of training that made Jesus of Nazareth that extraordinary receptacle for the Christ consciousness so that he was able to receive and project this beauty this knowingness this fantastic level of achievement that same same training has continued to exist thousands of years before our beloved Jesus of Nazareth and thousands of years since. It existed and it exists now. It exists here. Now in this center of training, in these monasteries, there were incidentally many different schools of thought, it was like having many denominations. And the Qabalah remained amongst the Hebrews themselves in accordance with one particular denomination of the Qabalistic teaching and training. But then there was another one of the aspects or traditions, mind you, all with the the same root, every one with the same root. But there was another branch of this tradition that continued, but it continued with very, very small numbers indeed. And it continued in very great secrecy, because it had to. Evolution was such on the planet at that time and for quite a while, where certain knowledge had to be very carefully guarded because the karma, shall we say the karma of the planet, the karma of humanity or the cycle for humanity was such that it was going from a certain height of whatever that height was for that group it was going into a temporary decline in order remember to achieve the next height because all of evolution as surely we've come to recognize is not a continuous up climbing it is an up-and-down like the hills we see in Tarot key number 18 you see but each hill that we make is is higher than the previous height, even though we have to go down to come up again.

And remember, the time comes when the lowest point for us is actually higher than the highest point had been previously. So we have this up-and-down cycle in evolution, and yet we come to a point where, where even though we have this up and down area, the motion or the movement becomes more and more rapid. Now, right now, the rapidity has increased fantastically, although one can't avoid the up and down cycles.

Remember, as I'm pointing out, we travel them far more rapidly. That is, those of us who have become spiritual aspirants. the rest of mass humanity continue they continue to travel at whatever rate they have to at whatever rate they, as their requirement because at any given point especially in the last two thousand years there has not been or there have not, I should say there have not been too many individuals who have achieved the level of evolution where they were able to bear the kind of intensity of energies that are involved in the most intensive portion of the spiritual occult training, and that has to do with chanting. so it's only been a very short time since occult chanting has again in the Western tradition has again surfaced from the knowledge that it has continued to hold it has surfaced and you have been receiving this the value the privilege of this why have you been receiving this extra extra training, this privilege, it is because you have earned it.

In other words, when the extra intensification of our being, which gives us more power to influence life, to influence other people's thinking and feeling, when through these tests Lest we develop the strength to withstand the various temptations, why then we receive further teaching, further training in different ways.

Because we have more than one way of teaching and training. Remember the true teaching isn't given by me. the true teaching isn't given by any human being the true teaching is given to your soul via the hierarchy in accordance with what you are doing with your privileges and opportunities now Now, utilizing chant actually does more than one thing.

The lost word of power is not one word. There are many words.

Just like a special sound can shatter a glass. Why? Because it breaks the molecules.

They vibrate together in such a way that the glass can shatter. We see this happen on the physical plane.

Can you imagine what the power of sound is, that it can do such a thing? Now, chanting also carries power, and fantastically more power than the note struck just so that it will shatter a glass.

Chanting carries the kind of power that shatters the various patterns in subconsciousness which are part of the mass consciousness habit levels and the mass consciousness drives.

Now, that is why it has been necessary to keep certain portions of the work so secret for so many years in the past but right now as we know we are either in the aquarian age or approaching it or on the we're certainly on the cusp of it and there has been an influx in the last 100 years and this has been intensifying incidentally geometrically there's been an influx of souls incarnating that are older, wiser and ready to be given the opportunity now mind you, it doesn't mean that everyone will succeed but being given the opportunity to receive the special training and to go through the tests to receive the privilege of being tested to see how well one can carry these extra energies. We chant four of what are called the divine names, but I always like to remind you that doesn't mean that there are four gods. You notice how we start our service in the very earliest part of the service.

It's the third thing we do. We make it very clear to subconsciousness. We announce to our entire group body of light, which exists here, which when we come together, we form and we feed, we keep nourishing this group body of light, because that's what the divine hierarchy requires for the evolution of humanity.

We make this very intense announcement via chant.

here O Israel the Lord thy God the Lord is one this we announce with power because it is the power of the chant that is announcing it and the power of the chant is fantastically more effective in you might say sending a surge of energy or power through the mind stuff then a spoken word is now chanting actually intensifies or increases the vibratory rate of the idea so that you might say the hierarchy chance it does too literally the hierarchy chance and the very chanting from the highest you might say God chance the universal mind chance indeed the reason creation is is because the universal mind chance we could say and God said let there be but it's more accurate to say in God chance let there be because this power of the word is really expressed more via this chant there are those who have heard for example the music of the spheres that's one aspect of the chanting there are those who receive fantastic intuitions and I hope you receive them very often indeed that is actually the influx of the idea which we can call a chant perhaps we could put it in another way and say it is the song of life God sings the song of life God is the song of life you and I are notes chanting our tone or that is what our souls are doing this is our individuality within the total shall we say symphony of beingness so we when we chant make announcements via the chant we become attuned the subconsciousness is not and and the conscious mind is not as resistant to certain very vital ideas which have to do with our own evolutionary processes and yet the power that gathers people together is the power of the chant it can actually be used negatively or positively there are those who have worked and toiled and that means they have learned how to chant the divine names not necessarily in this incarnation certainly they've chanted between incarnations even though it is not the sound as we know sound on the physical plane because chanting of the divine name is the soul's effort to become attuned to only that which God wills and so chanting the divine names even when we are not yet consciously aware of what it signifies is really announcing God I want to be attuned to thy will I God I want to be attuned to thy love God I want to be attuned to thy thy creativity.

God, I want to be attuned to thy unity.

And each of what we call the divine names are really different expressions on this tree of life of the one God. You know, number one, the crown, reduces to the same number as number ten, the physical manifestation, the kingdom.

So that it is said in Qabalah, Kether, the one, the only, the indivisible is in Malkuth, the kingdom, the experience of such manyness, as the kingdom, Malkuth, the experience of such manyness, is in Kether, the one and the only, but in a different way, or that after another manner. And the other manner has to do with the ability and capacity to experience untold detailed you know the manifold aspects of beingness because this is one of the things that evolution is all about to become aware of an infinite number of things within the framework of a complete knowledge of unity or oneness but man in the lower mass mind level has the tendency to accept the appearance of separateness as a reality and then he goes to work with this delusion and he uses the power of the word which incidentally is the same as the chance to tear to rend know if you You heard this reading from the Bible, to injure, to damage.

It's because he has not yet learned better. Dr. Case used to say, a very unripe apple on the tree of life, and ah, how bitter those apples taste, and you know what kind of a tummy ache you get when you eat an unripe piece of fruit.

so our vibe our work with qabalistic chanting is aiming not only at becoming more and more attuned to the divine but of increasing our aspiration and the power to aspire to enhance it to enlarge it so that more and more this is what we will want in other words it's like it's a work that is transmuting our very desire level because as we chant you see what occurs is we are getting this total infinite ocean within which we are we are getting it into a movement a movement that is in harmony with the divine idea the divine plan which finally remember will be a completed Brotherhood of man manifest here on earth so the powers of vibratory chant in Qabalah remember are aimed at what we talk about in words, but the chanting brings a fantastic enlargement. In other words, our consciousness becomes a broadcaster telepathically. And remember, everybody is receiving and sending telepathically all the time.

But as we work with chanting in this tradition, we actually develop an amplification of our influence, our thinking and feeling, amplified influences more and more our environment, our life, our destiny, and certainly other individuals. And because you receive this training, because you can come and open up via the chanting and the other things and receive more of the total hierarchical energies, why this gives you that extra responsibility too it isn't just mine I have my level and I say to you listen now you're older than the other kids and you've got to do your share of the work in the house and that means that you too have a responsibility for your brothers and sisters because you're older than the others and what does that responsibility entail? It means that you have to be very careful to accept all your brothers and sisters for the age they are. Each and every one of you are the sacred vessel of God.

Each and every one of you are the incarnation of the most glorious levels of the divine hierarchy being prepared for vastnesses beyond words. Each and every one of you therefore are continuously under test and that test is the greatest privilege of all. So we begin by treating each other within the spiritual family in such a way that we are as protective with each other and towards each other as the mother with the infant. Remember this.

Remember it well. Because if we fail each other, we are certainly going to fail humanity and we're not going to be earning the privilege of walking in the light. But you are not going to fail.

So you see, things are going beautifully.

It is well. It is very well with us, and it will be even more well, because the light shineth ever brighter. And I love you from the depth of myself.
