It's time for our talk. The topic, the title, is Chance of Power in Mysticism.

Now, there are quite a few here who have listened to us chant.

This is part of the ritual of the Temple of Tarot and Holy Qabalah. and no doubt you have been attracted to the chanting that we do though also it would not have had too much meaning many of you perhaps most of you have found yourselves touched most profoundly deep within your being even though you have not been able to describe it adequately even to yourselves. But I was one who had a very particular bias against not only ritual, but certainly chanting, which is a part of ritual. However, the Lord of the Universe was very, very kind to me indeed by bringing me at a very, very young age to Dr. Paul Foster Case, who aside from having been the supreme head of the spiritual work of the previous reincarnation of our order as well as the present one he also was quite a trained musician and so his knowledge of the power of chant the power of vibration along with his knowledge of ritual and his full full training in other ways, was far greater, far greater than anyone on this planet for many years before and since.

And I received the impact of the power of his voice.

Now we're going, you know, make a sound noise unto the Lord.

His voice stirred my soul to a degree that no words can describe. And I knew that this kind of stirring was a power, that it carried a power, and that there must be something beyond what I had suspected to bring such a power which could, you might say, pierce surfaces, could even pierce my own prejudices. because I assure you I was prejudiced indeed.

And usually prejudice blocks us from being properly receptive. So it took a tremendous power to pierce the prejudice I had. This power was his.

It came to me through his voice as well as through what I saw from behind his eyes. But what I saw from behind his eyes, this vastness of soul, also was that which expressed itself via the vibrations that came from his mouth. Now, the use of sound, when one knows how to use it, can knock out, knock down, destroy that which is an antagonistic element to spiritual growth.

In other words, when we want to go from a lower level of understanding or growth to a higher, the one thing that true occultism tells us at all times is that we must be willing to leave the old behind to get to the new. Now, too many of us overlook the fact that when we are spiritual aspirants, Yes. Just as true as is the fact that we must be ready to leave one place to get to the next. We have to be ready to give up one set of conditions and circumstances, a set of thinkings and feelings, a set of patterns, of images. We have to be ready to give them up, which means we have to be willing to let them become shattered so that the energy can be reassembled for the grander structures that we are aspiring towards. all of aspiration automatically brings a certain force into action the force that comes into action is the force that it that is aimed at helping us to discover what we have outgrown or should help ourselves outgrow in order to become more mature which means to become more spiritually oriented to develop more control and power over our various areas of life, of experience, of our environment, in fact.

So the ability to understand that expansion of consciousness, that traveling the ladder, the tree of life, to return to the source, to the center, has to do with knowing how to give up that which has served its purpose, which may have been useful once, but is not useful any longer. To understand this and to be willing to undertake it, when this is accomplished, we are guided to that portion of spiritual training where we are given the help. now what is it the help that we need here we come to what the power of the chant involves now chanting in the Western mystery training system isn't just making a joyful noise though there's nothing more wonderful than doing that but you see suppose we make a joyful noise with full full understanding of the implications of this noise.

In other words, when we consciously utilize power, by utilizing power, Mars is power, and you see the powerfulness of Mars in Key 16.

When we consciously utilize power to help break up the false structures, the false knowledge, the immaturities, we are able to receive to be spiritual illuminations realizations we are able to attune ourselves we are able to become attuned to higher levels of knowing and being and it all involves the ability the capacity to enter into the stream of change and cooperate with it now Now, to see just what is meant by chant in other ways, for example, let's take sound in itself. All of us know, surely, that if you have something like, say, a glass, and you hit a note just right, that sound will shatter a glass. Now why? Because the vibration, which is that sound, is able to hit at the molecular structure of the glass in such a way that it shatters the form. This is an outer physical something, but remember everything outer or physical is a final effect of spiritual causes that is consciousness is always the primary cause and therefore whatever it is we see on the physical plane there are correlates that come from the spiritual plane which is the cause of the outer or physical aspect of life or expression experience so on now in the same manner that a sound rightly hit will shatter a glass chanting properly done will shatter patterns of consciousness within subconsciousness that have served their purpose in other words old patterns that are holding us back immature thinking incorrect interpretations expectations that are unrealistic and immature these are the kinds of patterns that proper hitting the proper vibration can help us shatter now does that have to be uncomfortable no it doesn't have to be uncomfortable but the fact is it is uncomfortable most of the time to most people only because of this tendency to want to hang on to what was thinking and erroneously thinking that this is security you see what we're accustomed to we get to feel secure with even if it is something very negative we somehow develop these attachments so we get caught in these magnetic worlds and so we uh when we try hanging on to these magnetic worlds of past thinking being feeling and at the same time aspire you know something or other has to give either we We are going to have the shattering take place with pain in our hearts, or we will enter into the spirit of it and be willing to let it go, at which time there's no pain at all.

Now, when we can say to ourselves, not only I am a spiritual aspirant, we certainly are, or we would not be here. But when on top of that, we can also say, now as a spiritual aspirant, What I know is necessary is that I give up everything that interferes with my developing the qualities and the experiences that spiritual awareness gives.

When we come to that point, then we are ready to say also, now then, I want to learn how to do it. well, the lessons you receive through the mail, help you in the most important ways as a first step, and perhaps even as a first, second, third, or fourth step, because we certainly have to first become aware of our images, know what to do with them, and we need other images to replace the old images. However, once we have started to work with changing of the images, with becoming aware of what we are doing with them during the various situations and conditions, we do reach a point where we need more intensive aid. If we are able to take it, then we are guided to where we're given oral instruction.

Now, do not think for one moment that you can buy any book or a thousand million books, or that you can be handed as a gift anything in the written word in any way, shape, or form that gives you the magic formula that's going to snap the leaden hold of the mortal level consciousness and give you immortal awareness or illumination, liberation. Too many aspirants fall into the trap of thinking that if they just go and get hold of this book or that or go to this place or that place, that they'll get it. You cannot get anything. You can receive help, and you're guided to where you will receive it. You can receive help if you are able to receive the impact of the energies that are involved. And not all of us who have worked with aspiration have been ready at the same periods within each incarnation, because always we have to first recapitulate certain other portions of our growth, and also there are certain karmic aspects to our experiences that have to be taken care of.

but finally at some stage within each incarnation a true spiritual aspirant is brought to where there will be the opportunity that doesn't even mean that it's going to work at the moment, it always works finally but there will be the opportunity for certain oral instruction and the oral instruction again Again, it has to do with a very intensive principle involved in occult growth. Now, if you will look at Tarot Key No. 5, the Hierophant, on the surface you don't see what's involved there. Yet, there is a very profound message that's given to your subconsciousness through this symbology, because your subconsciousness knows, even though the conscious mind does not know yet. Now, that particular tarot key is assigned to Taurus, and Taurus rules, amongst other things, the ears, the hearing, and that has to do with inner hearing. It also, incidentally, rules the throat, and incidentally, the throat has to do with chanting.

And that hierophant is called the revealer of the mysteries.

Now, what is the revealer of the mysteries? Sometimes we think it's just something revealed by seeing. No. True revelation involves the full spectrum of the vibration, so that seeing and hearing are not separated. They become one experience because they're just different vibratory rates of one line of energy, whether we know this consciously or not. In the color and sound lessons that you receive through the mail at the proper time, you're given the principles of the correlation of color and sound. I will just repeat it for a moment, one little aspect of it, the idea that, for instance, each note has a certain number of vibrations per second, and if you hit the note that has a certain amount of vibrations per second, and you think of it continuously doubling itself, or multiplying itself and going in geometrical progression, that same color, that same sound, has a color if it went faster and faster, that is, but always keeping at that rate. In other words, there is a relationship of correlation so that everything that is seen actually also also has a vibration that we can relate to sound even if that sound cannot be heard with the ears remember there's such a thing as ultrasonics now this the this sound can smash gallstones it can damage uh physical form it can also heal physical form depending on how it it is used the same way chanting it has a correlation with certain color and form aspects that is exactly mathematical in accordance with occult mathematics incidentally not just math as we are accustomed to thinking of it and that goes back to the ideas of gematria now the full comprehension or understanding of the use and power of chant, of course, takes a fairly long time as we think of time at the moment.

Though on the inner planes, if we've already had previous teaching and training, we are able to understand it much more rapidly. However, the oral training that's involved with chant is involved also with the principle that it is the vibration of sound, also remember connected with the vibration of light since they're not separate. There are different vibratory rates of the same thing. It is this line of connection that has to come from a level of consciousness that keeps us in the area of aspiration and guidance and at the same time works with our consciousness as such. For example, in a fluidic area, say the ocean, we have little whirlpools. Now what these whirlpools are there, why? Because of various currents that are involved. Each current is like an individual that is using the total ocean. Now, if you threw a very large stone in that ocean, it would make a much larger whirlpool, and it would take in all the smaller worlds, or it would certainly influence them, even though if they were going at a rapid enough rate, they would remain where they are.

Now patterns of thinking and feeling that are interfering with our growth are similar to all these little whirlpools within a fluidic ocean. Now proper chanting that is coming from the correct area, that's where we come in with what I mean by heaviness, helps to swallow up those old patterns. Now what do I mean by the heavier area, the proper area? Remember what I mentioned about Dr. Case and the fantastic power that his voice had, or the influence that it had, the way it just practically, it did not just practically, it pierced my soul with its richness and its beauty. Now that's because his voice was carrying a level of consciousness and his voice carrying the level of consciousness if we think of the power of Mars and then we look at the power of the Hierophant we can see that the revealer of the mysteries incidentally he looked a lot like that except much more beautiful of course with Paul I me like the case now the revealer of the mysteries as assigned to this Tarot key functioning through the mouth of the organ of speech actually then can pierce through the patterns actually it can can follow them up at times when we're ready for it. And he, as my teacher, functioned in this manner as the oral instructor whose voice, whose explanations, whose teaching was able to help me, for example, get over some of those prejudices and whatever else was needed in order to clear the channelings necessary for me to clear in order to function as an instrument of the most high to the best of my ability now every one of us sitting here have been guided by the same divine that guides all and that guided me guided dr. Paul foster case because the line of power that we're talking about, again, I show you Key 16, notice the sun and the vibration coming from that white sun, that central essence, that beauty and that glory that we don't recognize as such.

The chanting that all work is started in the Western Mystery Training System, this is how Jesus was trained to incidentally has to do with first aligning the vibrations of our vehicles to that which we call a hey you know how we chant a hey that's the first divine name now that's that white circle called the crown that means the one that means the indivisible you know When we hear, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, that's aheia. But aheia is the chant of power that vibrates us to a connection.

You know, when we turn on a radio or a TV set, what are we doing? And when we turn on a special station, we're attuning the vibration to that area. in the same manner the chanting of certain formulas and their formulas attune us to that area provided you have the ladder or hierarchy of knowers, as we often call them, knowers of the mysteries. So that, for example, if I am aligned, at least in part, with the self-awareness, with the experience that cannot be described, but that knows it is one with the one, ahaya, then my conscious knowingness makes me an instrument for the revealer of the mysteries, and I become a revealer of the mysteries on my vibratory functional level for the functional levels of those that are the few laddered steps below low who are marching towards me while I'm marching up towards the next. In other words, this is the hierarchy of knowers. But the hierarchy of knowers, when they are true knowers, carry a certain power. But the power is not what people think. The power that is carried is the capacity to help transfer. It is like being plug-in stations and it is done via chant. And there are some who think that we can attain to the highest just by sitting alone and meditating. This isn't true. We can attain to certain levels by sitting alone and meditating if we've had previous incarnational training. But we always come to the point where we have to be brought to those areas where the vibrations are able to be brought up to a certain level. And being brought to the certain level doesn't mean just knowing how to chant a certain chant. It means having at least the leader attuned to that level so that it can be brought down like step down and therefore finally reach into the subtle vehicles of all present that is why for example there are some who simply cannot cannot take the chant vibrations. They are not in a cycle within themselves where they are able to permit the vibrations to help, say, shatter or melt down whatever is interfering with the higher knowing. And when certain individuals are in that state, they react They act very adversely to the vibrations.

They become uncomfortable, which is understandable. There are other aspirants who, no matter how uncomfortable they got, they wouldn't care. They got to achieve union with the Most High to the greatest capacity they're capable of, and these would come. There are others that are never uncomfortable. They have to come to get their charge. And when a pattern is fighting back, that's when we usually have more of a tendency to get uncomfortable. Otherwise, the shattering of old patterns is a very joyous thing, because every time we see that old ways of thinking and feeling are melting away, that we find ourselves responding in a more spiritual, a more mature manner to various environmental factors, There is sort of a happiness, like a lightness. We become more and more as light as the fool, as indicated in Tarot Key Zero.

Vibrations are received in such a way when we chant these various formulas of power that actually the very atoms of our physical bodies are vibrated in a special way. Remember the analogy of a certain note of what will happen to a glass if it's hit a special way.

The vibrations of our chanting even affect our physical vehicles so that the atomic structure of our physical vehicles becomes more and more etherealized or spiritualized and we can therefore receive more and more of the most intensive energy levels of the spiritual powers. So when we chant Ahaya, we are first aligning ourselves with that level on that Qabalistic Tree of Life via the hierarchy through the oral instruction. You see, you have to be able to hear it and participate in the hearing before you can also feel its effects at home between times. And it has to be reinforced regularly when we are in a period or cycle of our evolution where we are able to go more rapidly, very much more rapidly, because this is the most intensive aspect of the work, the very most intensive. I am leaving very careful records on things like tapes, for example, so that the power of the chant shall not leave because you do not have the opportunity to receive oral instruction on this level very often.

it's certainly not here every generation it is kept in special ways by the few and there are times like right now when far more than few are being brought before the Lord of the Universe for instruction via channels that are prepared but I'm leaving these instructions and incidentally when we talk of tape remember the fact that a consciousness is known or known at that level it is able to continue on through the hierarchy as long as it is kept that way and those of you for example who've listened to some of the tapes on my classes when i've been away to new zealand know that you've received as much impact and sometimes more listening to the tapes the magnetic form that the tape takes of the voice if there's an aura behind it is still there it registers and therefore the knowingness and the health is there we have it you have it when you're home most of you know this by now you know the vibrations that we share here together have been lifting our awareness so that we are able to reach for it almost at will a good portion of us already can do this the rest of us certainly can learn with we want to so the power of the the chant and mysticism, as you can see, has to do with very much more than one thing.

Certainly it has to do with aligning ourselves to those divine levels of consciousness so that we can receive the help to become ever more godlike.
